% History 1103.21854: Survey of American History
% Spring 2019 — MWF 1:30-2:20PM, CLB 313
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States beginning with early European-indigenous encounters and continuing through the present day. Students are expected to attend weekly lectures, complete assigned readings, and demonstrate acquired knowledge through exams and an essay assignment. Students are also expected to think critically about the complicated, and possibly controversial, nature of our nation's shared pasts. 

# Contact Information

Office: 154 S Murray Hall\
Office Hours: MW 2:30PM-4:00PM, or by appt.\
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>\
Phone: 405-744-5679 (Main Office)                    
	
## Teaching Assistants

Janna Rogers                     Kurt Terry
-------                          -------
170 S Murray Hall                164 S Murray Hall
<janna.rogers@okstate.edu>       <kurt.terry@okstate.edu>
Office Hours: T 9AM-12PM         Office Hours: TR 12:30PM-2:00PM                 

Katie Rogers                     Kaitlyn Weldon 
---                              ---            
170 S Murray Hall                170 S Murray Hall                         
<katie.rogers12@okstate.edu>     <kaitlyn.weldon@okstate.edu>         
Office Hours:                    Office Hours:  
R 2PM-3:30PM                     F 9AM-12PM
F 11AM-12:30PM

## Notes on Contacting Us

Emails sent to myself or your TA are professional messages and need to be treated as such. All your emails need to include a 1) proper subject, 2) salutation, 3) a reference to the course (HIST 1103.21854), and 4) your full name. Emails that are not properly formatted will not be answered.

Furthermore, this syllabus is your most basic reference source this semester. It provides answers to many of the questions you may have (exam times, homework assignments, office hours, etc.) and you should consult this syllabus for answers prior to emailing. Emails that ask questions answered here will not be answered. This policy is not meant to be callous, but rather allows myself and your TA to ensure important emails do not get lost in the shuffle of the semester.

Lastly, you do not need an appointment to attend office hours, but be aware you may have to wait in line as office hours are first come, first serve. If you need to visit outside of office hours you need to schedule an appointment ahead of time. I will not meet with students outside office hours that do not have an appointment. 


# What to expect

*Expect to attend both physically and mentally on a regular basis.* Even though we are meeting right after lunch and you may be in a food coma (or desperate for food), regular attendance is both expected and a critical part of the learning process. The best indicator of success in any course is regular attendance, failing to attend on a regular basis overwhelmingly indicates a likelihood you *will not* pass this class.

*Expect to do reading and writing*. History, as with the other humanities, is primarily a reading based discipline. In addition to regular short readings throughout the semester, you will read one full length book and complete a connected short essay paper. This workload is manageable *if* you set aside time outside of class to complete the work. Simply attending lectures *will not* lead to a good grade in this class. I will provide some suggestions on writing your papers and managing your time, but keeping up on the readings and assignments is primarily your responsibility.

*Expect a greatest hits of American history*. Due to the amount of material we have to cover in a semester I cannot provide information on every facet of American history, or even cover all of the significant events. Your textbook will supplement lectures and provide far more detail than I will be able to during our weekly meetings. Just because I do not cover something in lecture *does not* exclude it from being on the tests. Additionally, I encourage anyone wanting more information on topics not covered to come see me during office hours, I am always happy to talk about history.

*Expect to pass, if you do the work*. This class is very hard to fail but it will not be easy. If you put in the work (regular reading, studying, attending office hours, etc.) you will more than likely get a decent grade in this class. That being said, earning an A in the class means demonstrating exemplary work on a consistent basis.

# Required Materials

Your main textbook, Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty* (2017 OSU Custom Edition) is included on the course's online classroom as part of the fees attached to this course. The Foner textbook is required for the course. The bookstore provides an opt-out option for students who have a hard copy of the textbook. Students who need to opt-out should see me in person during office hours with their textbook copy and confirm their eligibility and gain access to the opt-out option. **Please note**: The textbook is required and opt-outs cannot be undone and will result in not being able to complete course assignments. Extensions or makeups will not be granted if you opt-out and lose access to the textbook.

Additionally you need to purchase a copy of Michael Herr's *Dispatches*. It is preferable that you purchase the Vintage Reprint edition from 1991 (ISBN 0679735259), but you may utilize an alternative edition as long as the material is properly cited in your work. 

All books are also able at the library for students who wish to utilize them.


## Assignments

#### Primary Source Responses

Four, two question responses to assigned readings in the Eric Foner textbook. Additional information and the prompts for each of these assignments is available at the back of the syllabus. You will turn in a digital copy to the assigned BrightSpace dropbox prior to class on the dates listed in the course schedule. Assignments are graded in increments of 5 (e.g. 50, 45, 40, etc.) 

#### Dispatches Paper

This semester you will write a short paper analyzing the issues in Vietnam utilizing the perspective of Michael Herr's *Dispatches,* a first-hand account of the war from a journalist stationed in Vietnam. The prompt and formatting guidelines for the paper are included at the back of the syllabus.

#### Exams

Two exams, taken in class on the date listed in the course schedule. The exams will be comprised of five short identifications and one essay question.

#### Final Exam

Hour and fifty minute exam that will have the same structure as the first two exams (five non-cumulative IDs and an essay) with the addition of a cumulative essay covering how specific themes influenced United States history. 

#### Attendance/Class Conduct

I will take attendance 15 times randomly throughout the semester. Students who show up more than 10 minutes late to class or leave early without prior approval will not earn attendance points. I also reserve the right to withhold attendance points if you are on your phone, sleeping, or anything else that prevents you from being both physically and mentally present during lecture. Any issue disruptive to the learning process is classified as a class conduct violation and students who receive more than two class conduct violations will lose 25 points for each subsequent violation.

## Grades

  Assignment                         1000 points  Breakdown
  ------------------------           ---------    ---------
  Attendance	                     150 points
  Primary Source Responses           200 points   50 points each  
  Exam 1                             150 points   40 points for IDs, 60 points for essay
  Exam 2                             150 points   Same as above
 *Dispatches* Paper                  150 points 
  Final Exam	                     200 points   IDs and non-cumulative essay: 50 points each; 
                                                                   cumulative essay: 100 points

The following key will determine your letter grade:

  Grade   Percentage
  ------- ---------
  A       90% and above
  B       80%-89%
  C       70%-79%
  D       60-69%
  F       59% and below


#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) **with the person who graded their work** to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account by your grader. If I did not grade your assignment I will only meet with you *after* you have talked to the TA. We reserve the right to raise *or* lower your grade at these meetings.

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), we **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see us in person

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- January 22: 100% refund for dropped class
- January 25: Partial refund for dropped class
- February 27: Six week grades
- April 12: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

You may only turn in work for 48 hours after the assignment is due, with a 10% grade reduction per day. Any work submitted after this point will not be accepted. Extensions for full credit will only be granted at Dr. Eberle's discretion and will only happen in extremely rare circumstances (i.e. serious illness, family emergency) with the appropriate documentation. TAs cannot grant extensions.

Absences that are scheduled ahead of time are not a reason for an extension, students missing class for scheduled reasons need to complete the work ahead of time or schedule an alternative exam time prior to the missed class session. Failure to notify me of conflicts in a timely manner will result penalties for late work.

Class Powerpoints and notes are not posted online. It is the responsibility of students who miss class to secure the appropriate notes from someone in class or attend in-person office hours to discuss what was missed in class. 

#### Extra Credit / Resubmissions

No extra credit assignments will be offered this semester. Additionally students may not re-do assignments for additional points. All grades are final once submitted.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops may only be used with my permission. Students wishing to utilize laptops need to attend office hours or schedule an appointment to discuss the matter.
- Cellphones must be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk. 
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is prohibited.
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. You will be asked to leave/lose attendance points if you are not able to conduct yourself in a professional manner.

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of his/her disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to www.okstate.edu/ucs/stdis/ for additional information.

**NOTE**: Students with SDS accommodations need to either attend office hours or schedule an appointment to discuss the accommodations before the end of the second week of classes.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

\newpage

# Class Schedule

Schedule subject to change.

**All exams are in the same location as lectures**

- **DUE BY FRIDAY OF WEEK THREE**: Three large version blank blue books

## Week 1 (1/14 - 1/18):  Introductions and A "New" World
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 1

## Week 2 (1/21 - 1/25): Conquests and Settlement
- **MONDAY**: No Class, MLK, Jr. Day, Spend the day volunteering

## Week 3 (1/28 - 2/1): Colonial Expansion
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 2-4
\color{red}
- **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #1
\color{black}

## Week 4 (2/4 - 2/8): Growing Colonial Conflicts
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 5-6

## Week 5 (2/11 - 2/15): Revolution and a New Republic
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 7-8
\color{red}
- **FRIDAY - Exam One**
\color{black}

## Week 6 (2/18 - 2/22): Jacksonian Democracy and Its Limitations

## Week 7 (2/25 - 3/1): Westward Expansions and the Road to Disunion
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 11
\color{red}
- **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #2
\color{black}

## Week 8 (3/4 - 3/8): Civil War and The Unfinished Revolution of Reconstruction
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 13-14

## Week 9 (3/11 - 3/15): Gilded Age and Progressive Era
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 15-18
\color{red}
- **FRIDAY - Exam Two**
\color{black}
 
## Week 10 (3/18 - 3/22): Spring Break, No Class
 
## Week 11 (3/25 - 3/29): World War I and the Roaring '20s
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 19
\color{red}
- **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #3
\color{black}

## Week 12 (4/1 - 4/5): The Great Depression and World War II
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 20-21

## Week 13 (4/8 - 4/12):  Cold War At Home and Abroad
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 22-23
\color{red}
- **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #4
\color{black}

## Week 14 (4/15 - 4/19): Civil Rights and the 1960s
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 25

## Week 15 (4/22 - 4/26): The Rise of Conservatism
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 25
\color{red}
- **DUE WEDNESDAY**: *Dispatches* Paper
\color{black}

## Week 16 (4/29 - 5/3): The History of Your Lifetime
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 26-28

## Final Exam: Monday, May 6th, 2:00PM-3:50PM

\newpage

# Primary Source Responses

Read the assigned documents for each response, found within the "Readings from The Norton Mix" section of the *Give Me Liberty* textbook. After reading all of the documents, respond with at least one direct quote from the document for **each question**.  **No outside sources are allowed**

**Do not worry about the study questions included in your book – you should only respond to the questions here. There are no make-ups, ensure you answer the questions below.**

Note: an exceptional primary source response will utilize material found in the corresponding main sections of the textbook. Consult the course schedule or the table of contents for relevant material.

You need to cite relevant page numbers from the textbook as necessary (e.g. when using quotes or citing non-common knowledge)

Assignments are to be submitted to the appropriate Dropbox *prior to the start of class on the date listed*.

#### Assignment #1 – due January 30^th^
- Richard Frethorne, "An Indentured Servant's Letter to His Parents (1623)"
- Ottobah Cugoano, "Narrative of the Enslavement of a Native of Africa (1787)"

- Q1: Describe the different experiences Frethorne and Cugoano had in their journeys to the British Colonies.
- Q2: Indentured servitude and forced slavery made up the majority of the arrivals in the American colonies. How do the experiences of both Frethorne and Cugoano complicate our understanding of the colonies as a land of opportunities and advancement? How could we adequately describe the colonies so that we take into account not only opportunity but also the frustrations, fear, and danger many arrivals experienced?

#### Assignment #2 – due February 27^th^
- George Fitzhugh, "A Defense of Slavery (1854)"
- Frederick Douglass, "Fourth of July Speech (1852)"

- Q1: What is Fitzhugh's rationale for supporting slavery? How does he see it compared to northern wage labor? How does his positive assessment of slavery contrast to the evidence you've dealt with so far this semester? Consider in particular Cugoano's narrative, Douglass's speech and relevant material from the textbook. 
- Q2: What is Douglass's feelings on the Fourth of July and the Declaration of Independence? How does Douglass's tone change over the course of the speech? How do you receptive do you think the audience of 600 abolitionists was to the speech?

#### Assignment #3 – due March 27^th^
- "The Scopes Trial (1925)"
- "Inventions Re-Making Leisure (1929)"

- Q1: What was the main issue in the Scopes Trial? How does Darrow's line of questioning fit in to the issue of the trial and why would Darrow seek to cross-examine Bryan in this manner? 
- Q2: Muncie, Indiana (or "Middletown") like Dayton, Tennessee experienced numerous changes over the course of the 1920s that redefined how its residents functioned and experienced the world. What were some of these changes? Who do the authors not discuss in their report and how does our understanding of the 1920s change when we incorporate this group? 

#### Assignment #4 – due April 10^th^

- Betty Friedan, "The Problem With No Name"
- Casey Hayden and Mary King, "Sex and Caste: A Kind of Memo" 

- Q1: What is the “problem with no name” that Friedan describes? How does this compare to cultural depictions of housewives (e.g. *Father Knows Best*, *Leave It To Beaver,* etc.) during the 1950s? 
- Q2: Provide example of how do Hayden and King compare the issues of sexism with those of racism? How are they similar or different? How did their participation in the civil rights movement prepare them to confront the issues of sexism?  

\newpage

# Dispatches Paper Prompt and Guidelines

**DUE - Wednesday, April 24 - Hard Copy AND BrightSpace.**

## Prompt
The Vietnam War, an integral part of U.S. strategy in the Cold War, was also the first war that forced Americans to confront the prospect  of losing a conflict. In many cases this new reality took place in near real-time on the evening news, which contributed in part to Vietnam being the defining event of the 1960s and 1970s. How and why did the United States find itself fighting a war in Vietnam and how did opinions of the conflict evolve over time? How did American society and its changes influence the war?

In your response be sure to include at least two citations to Herr's *Dispatches* and two citations to the Letters From Vietnam reading within the "Readings From the Norton Mix" section of the textbook (p. 1161-1166).

**NO OUTSIDE SOURCES ARE ALLOWED**

## Formatting

- Papers must be at least 3 double-spaced pages and no more than 4 pages in length
- Papers must be in 12-point Times New Roman with standard one-inch margins on all sides
-  The header on the first paper should be your full name and paper title, on each subsequent page the header should be your last name and the page number. Do *not* utilize a standard MLA header (e.g. your name, my name, class, etc.) 
-  All quotes and non-common knowledge must be cited using Chicago style footnotes. Formatting guidelines can be found here <https://bit.ly/HistChicagoStyle>
-  Additional formatting guidelines and templates will be on BrightSpace, it is expected your paper adhere to the formatting and points can be deducted for improperly formatted work.

## Tips

- This is not a book report, do not summarize the material, analyze and interpret it. 
- The prompt is a starting point and a guide, but you should expand beyond it. You paper and introduction in particular should do more than simply rehash the prompt.
- All papers are run through TurnItIn, I can guarantee it will catch plagiarism issues both in regards to shared papers and material pulled from the Internet. You will spend more time trying to get around TurnItIn and your grader than if you simply write the paper yourself. Plagiarism will result in serious academic integrity issues.
- If you do not complete the paper, you will more than likely have a difficult time passing the course as it is worth 15% of your grade. Regardless of the situation, completing the paper and earning points of some kind will be more beneficial than failing to turn in the assignment.
- We are not looking for perfection. 

# Drafts / Office Hours Review Credit

Beginning Week 11 and ending Week 14 of the semester, students can attend office hours with their grader and have their drafts or essay outlines reviewed. Students who attend *regularly* scheduled office hours during the period and present draft materials for their papers can earn up to 25 additional points on the assignment. The amount of points awarded is up to your grader and is based on the amount of material you present (e.g. the more you have, the more points you get), simply attending without material will not earn you points. The opportunity is a one-time opportunity, but you can bring in as many subsequent drafts as you wish prior to the paper deadline.

Please note: The TAs have classes and commitments of their own during this period and are not expected to meet with you on this issue outside of office hours. The points are not guaranteed and you should plan ahead if you wish to take advantage of this opportunity as waiting to the last minute may result in you not getting to meet with your TA.