% HIST 3980.29561 / AMST 3980.30178: U.S. History in 15 Songs
% Spring 2019 - T 2PM-3PM, CLB 121
% Dr. Jared L. Eberle

## Contact Information

Office: 154 S Murray Hall\
Email: jared.eberle@okstate.edu\
Office Hours: 2:30-4PM Monday/Wednesday or by appointment\
Phone: (405) 744-5679 (Main Office to leave a message)

## About

From slave spirituals of the antebellum era, to jazz clubs of Harlem and Chicago and Bob Dylan's Greenwich Village folk sessions, songs have served an important historical role on both personal and collective levels. Throughout the history of the United States music has provided commentary, solace, and soundtracks for critical events. Over the next sixteen weeks we will examine fifteen songs in five sections that help us understand aspects of American history throughout alternative lenses.

## Readings/Materials

This course has no assigned textbooks. All materials related to the course will be posted on the content tab of the course's BrightSpace page, https://online.okstate.edu as warranted.

## Assignments

**Song Responses** - After each of the five sections of the course you will write a short two page response paper connecting the class discussion and lecture materials back to U.S. History and analyze how the use of the songs explain those times in American History. Prompts will be distributed after the third song of each section and are due on Brightspace by the start of class the following week.

**Final Paper** - Pick a topic of U.S. history (this can be conceived as broadly or narrowly as you wish) and create a playlist for that topic. Utilizing academic materials, tell a short history of the topic and then explain your playlist selections and how they help us understand the topic. Your playlist should have at least five songs and no more than fifteen. You will upload a copy of the paper to Brightspace *and* put a hard copy in my department mailbox (located in 101 S Murray Hall) by 2PM, Thursday, May 9th. Additional guidelines are at the end of the syllabus. 

**Attendance / Participation** - This course only meets once a week for an hour minutes, so attendance is of the utmost importance. Additionally the course is rooted in your ideas as much as anything and as such you should expect to not only be present for every class but be engaged in discussions. As such part of your grade assesses your attendance and participation on a weekly basis. Each week you need to come to class prepared with out-of-class research on each of the topics of artists for that week (e.g. Google them, read Wikipedia, look through library resources) which you will turn in at the end of the class period for attendance. I will give some suggestions for the forthcoming week at the end of each class, but essentially spend some time just exploring. 


## Grading

Assignment               800 points Breakdown
------------------------ ---------   ------------
Responses                200 Points  50 Points Each
Final Paper              150 Points 
Attendance/Participation 150 Points  75 Points Each


The following key will determine your letter grade:

  Grade   Percentage
  ------- ---------
  A       90% and above
  B       80%-89%
  C       70%-79%
  D       60-69%
  F       59% and below

**NOTE**: Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), I **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see me in person.

## Additional Policies

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- January 22: 100% refund for dropped class
- January 25: Partial refund for dropped class
- February 27: Six week grades
- April 12: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive an "I" paired with the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B, I/C). **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.


#### Late Work

Work may be turned in up to 48 hours after the assigned deadline for a 10% deduction per day, work turned in after 48 hours will not be graded. Extensions will only be granted at my discretion and will only happen in extremely rare circumstances (i.e. serious illness, family emergency). In these circumstances you need to notify me as soon as you know. Accommodations will not be given if you fail to give me proper notice or do not provide adequate documentation.

#### Class conduct

- The use of computers or other electronics is prohibited. You should bring all relevant materials you need for class in hard copy form. 
- Do not pack up prior to the end of class, as it is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the material. 
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides without my permission is prohibited.
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. You will be asked to leave/lose attendance points if you are not able to conduct yourself in a professional manner.

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of his/her disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to www.okstate.edu/ucs/stdis/ for additional information.

**NOTE**: Students with SDS accommodations need to either attend office hours or schedule an appointment to discuss the accommodations before the end of the second week of classes.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu


\newpage
# Course Schedule

If you need additional background on any of the topics covered you can consult Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty*, the textbook for History 1103 or [The American Yawp](http://www.americanyawp.com), an open access, peer-reviewed textbook.

# Section One - Beginnings

#### Week One - Introduction / The First Americans (John Angaiak - Ak'a Tamaani)

#### Week Two - The American Revolution (Yankee Doodle Dandy - Pete Seeger)

#### Week Three - Defining the New American Nation (Star Spangled Banner - Jimi Hendrix)

# Section Two - Resistance

#### Week Four - Slavery and Antebellum Society (Aretha Franklin, Mary, Don't You Weep)
- **DUE** Section One Response paper (Brightspace)

#### Week Five - American Disunion (Paul Robeson - John Brown's Body)

#### Week Six - Work and Identity  (Big Bill Broonzy - John Henry)

# Section Three - War and Society

#### Week Seven - The Great War (Veracruz - Warren Zevon)
- **DUE** Section Two Response paper (Brightspace)

#### Week Eight - The Good War (This Land Is Your Land - Woody Guthrie)

#### Week Nine - Protesting War (Masters of War - Bob Dylan)
- **DUE**: Final Paper Proposal (In class)

# Section Four - Realizing Rights

#### Week Ten - No Class, Spring Break

#### Week Eleven - Moving Beyond the Civil Rights Movement (Inner City Blues (Make Me Wanna Holler) - Marvin Gaye)
- **DUE** Section Three Response paper (Brightspace)

#### Week Twelve - Indigenous Rights (Custer Died for Your Sins - Floyd Red Crow Westerman)

####  Week Thirteen - Prisoner Rights and Carceral State (Johnny Cash - San Quentin)

# Section Five - The World Today

#### Week Fourteen - The Vietnam Legacies (Born in the USA - Bruce Springsteen)
- **DUE** Section Four Response paper (Brightspace)

#### Week Fifteen - Police Brutality  (We Had to Tear This Motherf*cka Up - Ice Cube)

#### Week Sixteen - Blackness in the New Millennium (Beyoncé - FORMATION)

# Final Essay - Due On Dropbox and Hard Copy by 2PM, Thursday, May 9th

\newpage

# Final Paper

**DUE** - Thursday, May 9th, no later than 2PM in hard copy (in my mailbox 101 S Murray Hall) and BrightSpace Dropbox

## Prompt

Pick a topic in United States history and provide the history of the event by using a playlist of songs. The topic can be defined as broadly or narrowly as you wish it to be (e.g. racism, resistance to slavery, the Rodney King attack and its aftermath) as long as the playlist can meet the necessary criteria.

- Playlist must be at least 5 songs in length and no more than 10.
- Playlist cannot contain more than one song by the same artist
- Songs from class can only be used with my approval
- Songs do not need to be contemporary to the event but need to relate to the topic in a specific manner 

## Paper Guidelines

- At least five full double-space pages
- 1-inch margins and 12-point Times New Roman font
- First page header is your full name and paper title, subsequent headers are your last name and the page number
- All citations should be in Chicago-style footnotes. References on correct citations format is available here: http://bit.ly/HistChicagoStyle

## A note on sources

Over the course of the semester you will be utilizing various materials as you assemble background on the artists and songs we'll be covering each week. In these cases it is perfectly acceptable to start with Wikipedia or a simple Google search. The goal of the weekly research assignments is to encourage you to both assemble knowledge about the topic as well as the popular understanding of the issue at hand. 

The final paper is formal paper and is treated differently. For your final paper you must only cite academic sources (e.g. no Wikipedia) and will lose points for poor references materials. Your best course of action for your final paper is the library, beginning with basic searches of the catalog, JSTOR, etc. If you have questions about materials you can come see me and you may also consider consulting with the library's subject area specialist for history. Additional information on the library's resources for history can be found here: http://info.library.okstate.edu/history

## Draft - **DUE** in class Week 9

No more than a page with your thoughts on a topic, preliminary song list (doesn't need to be complete) and potential source materials. This will be graded for participation points.


