% History 3703 - Oklahoma History
% Spring 2024
% NRD 316

# Course Description

This course will cover the history of the region now known as Oklahoma from the earliest Indigenous arrivals through the recent past. The course will ask students to consider what shaped the history of Oklahoma including, but not limited to, forced Indigenous removals, the booms and busts of Oklahoma's oil industry, and Oklahoma's complicated racial history in the 20th century. 

# Contact Information

Dr. Eberle\
154 Social Sciences and Humanities\
Office Hours: MWF 1PM-2PM or by appt.\
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>                  

If you need a Zoom meeting, please email me to schedule an appointment. Zoom meetings are available during non-office hour slots for students who cannot attend office hours due to illness or other issues.

# Required Materials

The course requires the following two books which can be purchased at the University bookstore or any place books are sold:

* Sam Anderson,   *Boom Town: The Fantastical Saga of Oklahoma City, Its Chaotic Founding...Its Purloined Basketball Team, and the Dream of Becoming a World-class Metropolis* ISBN 9780804137331
* Randy Krehbiel, *Tulsa, 1921: Reporting a Massacre* ISBN 9780806168715

## Assignments

#### Syllabus Quiz

Short multiple choice quiz on Canvas that covers the basics of this syllabus. The quiz is pass/fail and is used to indicate you have read the syllabus and agree to the course policies for the semester.

#### Attendance

I will take attendance 10 times randomly throughout the semester.

#### Reading Responses

Four responses to assigned reading materials. Additional information and the prompts for each of these assignments are available on the corresponding Canvas assignment. You will turn in a digital copy to the appropriate Canvas assignment by the end of the day listed in the course syllabus.

#### Paper 

A 5-10 page paper that will provide a biography and historical assessment of a major figure or event in Oklahoma history. The paper will have three components: an initial proposal (25 points); an annotated bibliography and paper update (25 points); the final paper (150 points). Students may propose alternative methods for satisfying the assignment. All alternative methods must be approved by me in advance.

#### Exams

Three in-class exams comprised of short IDs and an essay. A study guide will be provided. No notes or other materials will be allowed in completing the exam.

## Grades

|     Assignment     | Breakdown |
| :----------------: | :-------: |
|   Syllabus Quiz    |    100 points    |
|    Attendance      |    50 points     |
|  Reading Responses |    200 points    |
|      Paper         |    200 points    | 
|      Exams         |    450 points    |

The following key will determine your letter grade:

| Grade |  Percentage   |
| :---: | :-----------: |
|   A   | 90% and above |
|   B   |    80%-89%    |
|   C   |    70%-79%    |
|   D   |    60-69%     |
|   F   | Less than 60% |

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account with your grade. I reserve the right to raise *or* lower your grade at these meetings.

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), I **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see me in person.

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- January 23 (Tuesday): 100% refund for dropped class
- January 26 (Friday): Partial refund for dropped class
- February 28 (Wednesday): Six Week Grades
- April 12 (Friday): Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

All assignments besides exams are due to Canvas by 11:59PM on the date listed in the syllabus. After the deadline you have two days to submit the assignment for late work credit with 10% off per day late (the late work window **does not** apply to the in-class exams). Late work penalties are automatically deducted by Canvas and the late work window starts immediately after the full credit deadline. Once the late work window has passed assignments may not be submitted for credit.

All extensions for full credit must have appropriate dated documentation and be made in a timely manner. Any extension requests without documentation or made excessively late will not be granted. Technical issues cannot be sufficiently verified and do not qualify for extensions so do not wait until the late minute to submit assignments to avoid late penalties or missed assignments.

#### Resubmissions / Extra Credit

You have unlimited submissions prior to the assignment deadline and I will grade the most recent submission (excluding syllabus quiz which offers two attempts). Once the deadline passes assignments cannot be resubmitted or redone for additional credit. Make sure you verify your assignment has been submitted to Canvas and is the correct assignment to ensure credit. Wrongly submitted assignments are not grounds for extensions or makeups.

There are **two extra credit opportunities in the course this semester**. First, students who turn in all assignments on-time this semester will receive 25 extra points at the end of the semester. Students with an approved extension request will still be eligible for the bonus points. Second, if 75% of the class completes the online course evaluation at the end of the semester, the entire class will receive 25 bonus points on the final exam. Students may also earn bonus points if they email me by Friday of the first week of classes with their favorite thing.

#### Class conduct

- You may use a laptop to take notes for the course. 
- Phones may not be used in any circumstance and headphones must be taken off during the class period.
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is strictly prohibited.
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. 
- Repeated violations of course policies may result in dismissal from lecture and/or loss of attendance points.

#### Accessibility Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of their disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Accessibility Services. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to https://accessibility.okstate.edu for additional information.

**If you have an SAS accommodation you need to see me during office hours to discuss your accommodations and how you will use them**

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

All work completed for the course must be your own original work and only utilize assigned course materials. You are not allowed to work on assignments with others, re-submit previously used assignments, or use outside sources. Failure to comply can result in failure on the assignment or formal academic integrity inquiries. 

Use of artificial intelligence programs is strictly prohibited on all assignments in the course.

\newpage

# Class Schedule (Subject to Change)

All readings besides *Boomtown* and *Tulsa, 1921* are included on Canvas

### Due Dates

- 1/22: Syllabus Quiz
- 2/2: Reading Response #1 and Paper Proposal
- 2/16: Exam 1
- 3/2: Reading Response #2
- 3/9: Annotated Bibliography
- 3/23: Exam 2 
- 3/30: Reading Response #3
- 4/13: Reading Response #4
- 4/27: Paper
- 5/10: Final Exam

### Week 1 (1/15 - 1/19): The Long History of the Red Earth
* **Sunday, January 21:** Syllabus Quiz on Canvas

### Week 2 (1/22 - 1/26): Empires in Conflict

Readings:

- Timmerman, "Contested Indigenous Landscapes: Indian Mounds and the Political Creation of the Mythical 'Mound Builder' Race"

### Week 3 (1/29 - 2/2): The American Arrivals
* **THURSDAY**: Reading Response One and Paper Proposal Due

### Week 4 (2/5 - 2/9):  Indigenous Removals

Readings:

- Indian removal primary source documents

### Week 5 (2/12 - 2/16): The Early History of Indian Territory
* **THURSDAY**: Exam One

### Week 6 (2/19 - 2/23): The Tribes Divided: The Civil War in Indian Territory

### Week 7 (2/26 - 3/1): Reconstruction and the Post-War Territory

Readings:

- Circe Strum, "Blood Politics, Racial Classification, and Cherokee National Identity: The Trials and Tribulations of the Cherokee Freedmen"

### Week 8 (3/4 - 3/8): Dispossessions and the Path to Statehood
* **THURSDAY**: Annotated bibliography due

### Week 9 (3/11 - 3/15):  Progressivism and Early Statehood
* **THURSDAY**: Exam Two

Readings:

- *Boom Town* (Part I)

### Week 10 (3/18 - 3/22): Spring Break 

### Week 11 (3/25 - 3/29): Pay dirt: The Oil Boom in Oklahoma
* **THURSDAY**: Reading Response Three Due

Readings:

- *Boom Town* (Part II)

### Week 12 (4/1 - 4/5): Oklahoma Radicalism

Readings:

- "The Nightmare of Dreamland"

### Week 13 (4/8 - 4/12): The Boom's Dark Side: The Tulsa Race Massacre and the Osage Murders
* **THURSDAY**: Reading Response Four

### Week 14 (4/15 - 4/19): The Earth Moved: Oklahoma's Dust Bowl Depression

### Week 15 (4/22 - 4/26): Civil Rights in Oklahoma
* **THURSDAY**: Paper Due

Readings:

- *Boom Town* (Part 3)

### Week 16 (4/29 - 5/3): Oklahoma as a Modern State

Readings:

- *Boom Town* (Parts 4 and 5)

### Final Exam: Thursday, May 9th, 2PM
