# Facial Coverings Policy

The following is the official Oklahoma State University policy on face coverings for this semester:

> All OSU students, staff, faculty, contractors, vendors, suppliers and visitors must wear a face covering (mask) upon entering any public building on campus. Failure to wear face coverings is considered a violation of the University’s expected and communicated behaviors and guidelines. Like all Cowboy Community Standards, we expect faculty, staff, and students to respectfully address concerning behavior. If campus community members fail to wear facial coverings, they will be addressed through the appropriate corrective action avenues, Human Resources, Academic Affairs and Student Conduct.[^1]

[^1]: Face Coverings, Oklahoma State University. Accessed from https://go.okstate.edu/coronavirus/campus-reopening-plan/plan-at-a-glance/face-coverings.html

A Face covering of reasonable quality (e.g. no nylon masks) that are well-fitting and cover **both your mouth and nose** is required and must be worn throughout the entire class period. The university and I myself am being absolutely strict on this matter. Any students who cannot or does not wish to adhere to this requirement could not attend class in-person. Students with medical conditions should consult the "Requests for Accommodations" section at the end of this document. All students seeking accommodations need to have their requests approved by Student Accessibility Services *prior* to coming to class.

Any student who attends class without an appropriate face covering will be asked to leave class. Repeated refusal or belligerence on this matter will be reported to the Office of Student Conduct as a student conduct violation as detailed on OSU's campus re-opening plans. All courses this semester have mandatory seating charts for contract tracing, so I will know student identities from the beginning of the semester.

As COVID-19 is a novel coronavirus, the science on these issues is naturally still evolving. However, over six months into this global pandemic we have a pretty good picture when it comes to masks and spreading COVID-19: **masks work**. Generally masks without respirators only work to keep your germs inside of you (hence why doctors wear surgical masks during surgeries, they help to ensure they don't spread germs in a sterile environment). Early data found no significant increase in COVID-19 cases from the widespread protests the United States witnessed in the late Spring and early Summer, a benefit of both their outdoor setting and widespread mask usage.[^4] Scientists are now starting to find that masks can offer more protection. If everyone wears a mask it cuts down on the amount of droplets or aerosols in the air that can spread to others *and* wearing a mask can stop some (but not all) particles you could inhale.[^2] Additionally Japan has kept their cases total manageable by avoiding the Three C's --- closed spaces, crowded places, and close-contact setting --- as well as widespread mask usage prior to the COVID-19 outbreak.[^3] As we are in a closed environment we have to be extra cautious about how we operate.

[^2]: Rong-Gong Lin II and Maura Dolan, "Masks Offer Much More Protection Against Coronavirus Than Many Think," *Los Angeles Times*, July 14, 2020. Accessed from https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-07-14/evidence-mounts-that-masks-help-lower-your-exposure-to-the-coronavirus (Accessed on July 31, 2020); Linsey C. Marr, "Yes, the Coronavirus Is in the Air," *New York Times*, July 30, 2020. Accessed from https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/opinion/coronavirus-aerosols.html?smid=fb-share (Accessed on July 31, 2020).

[^3]: Shira Feder, "Japan avoided a lockdown by telling everyone to steer clear of the 3 C's. Here's what that means," *Business Insider*, May 28, 2020. Accessed from https://www.businessinsider.com/how-japan-tackled-coronavirus-without-a-lockdown-2020-5?op=1 (Accessed on July 31, 2020).

[^4]: Daniela Hernandez, Sarah Krouse, Brianna Abbott, and Charity L. Scott, "Early Data Show No Uptick in Covid-19 Transmission From Protests," *Wall Street Journal*, June 18, 2020. Accessed from https://www.wsj.com/articles/recent-protests-may-not-be-covid-19-transmission-hotspots-11592498020 (Accessed on July 31, 2020).

Face masks are unfortunately rather uncomfortable and annoying, but the more we wear them now, the quicker we can potentially go back to not having to use them in the future. Additionally, unless you have a very limited number of medically-valid reasons, face masks do not pose a health risk to you as an individual. Here's a little bit of personal backstory to show you I speak from something of experience on this matter. In 2008 I had pneumonia twice during my second and third semesters of undergrad --- to put it frankly, it sucked. I ended up going to a pulmonologist over Thanksgiving Break and found I had something in my right lung that was triggering the pneumonia --- also pretty sucky. Turns out I had a tumor, which resulted my Christmas present that year being a week-long hospital stay and the loss of two-thirds of my right lung --- really, really sucky. My lung capacity now is lower than would be expected for someone with normal lungs (at one point I had 79% lung capacity). Face coverings do not impede my ability to breathe or my overall blood oxygen levels. I will, of course, be conducting all class periods in a mask. 

This is also a very good time for me to note that I understand the difficulties of getting through a semester with health issues. If you feel even remotely sick, please **do not come to class**. Having personally dealt with the process of getting caught back up after being sick, I am very accommodating when it comes to working with you to get back on track or ensure you do not fall behind as much as possible. So if you need to miss an extended period of time, for any reason, let me know as soon as possible so we can work out a solution. 

If you have any questions about this or anything else in the course this semester do not hesitate to email me, <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>

# Student Requests for Accommodations to OSU’s Face Covering Policy

Wearing face coverings has been shown to reduce the spread of COVID-19 to others. It is important that OSU is a safe place to work and study, and taking this step creates a safe environment for all of us as advised by the CDC. In the interest of safety, all OSU students, employees, and visitors must wear a face covering (mask) upon entering any campus building and when near or are encountering others.

While we recognize the need for these safety precautions during this health crisis, we also understand that wearing face masks might be difficult for some students with disabilities or other health conditions. 

Students requesting an accommodation to OSU’s face covering policy will work with Student Accessibility Services (SAS) to identify reasonable accommodations to the face covering policy. To begin the process, a student would provide documentation from an appropriate medical professional listing the credentials of the evaluator, the student’s condition, and the need for the accommodation to OSU’s face covering policy. Possible examples of reasonable accommodations might include a loose face covering, neck gaiter/buff, scarf, or full face shield. 

If a suitable accommodation cannot be identified, students will need to pursue alternative formats in lieu of in-person classes with the help of SAS. Staff can work with the student and faculty to implement solutions utilizing digital means when reasonable and appropriate. Some alternative formats may include the use of recorded lectures, zoom, or other digital platforms.
