% History 1493.21607: United States History Since 1865
% Spring 2020 — MWF 11:30AM-12:20PM, MUR 035
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States since the end of the Civil War in 1865. The course will cover the major themes of American history during the period as well as attempt to provide some understanding of the process relating to the construction of history and its interpretations. 

# Contact Information

Office: 154 S Murray Hall\
Office Hours: MW 3:00PM-4:30PM, or appointments gladly given\
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>              

When you email please include the course information and your full name in the email, this will allow me to effectively respond to your email in a timely manner. Additionally, you do not need an appointment for office hours, but office hours are done first come, first served and are open to students in all of my courses, please plan accordingly.

## TAs

| David Justice                | Katie Rogers                    | Sheldon Yeakley                  |
| ---                          | ---                             | ---                              |
| 169 MUR                      | 170 MUR                         | 169 MUR                          |
| Office Hours: MW 1:00-2:30PM | Office Hours: Thursday 10AM-1PM | Office Hours: MWF 10-11AM        |
| david.justice@okstate.edu    | katie.rogers12@okstate.edu      | sheldon.yeakley@okstate.edu      |

# Required Materials

Three books required for the course are available for purchase at the OSU Student Union Bookstore and can also be purchased at most major bookstores. Consider supporting an independent bookstore and order from [Bliss Books & Bindery](https://www.blissbooksandbindery.com) in downtown Stillwater. Make sure you have purchased the correct edition.

\tightlist
* Eric Foner, *Give Me Liberty!*, OSU Brief 5th Edition (Available on the course's Canvas site)
* Brenda Child, *Boarding School Seasons: American Indian Families 1900-1940* ISBN 9780803264052
* Kate Brown, *Plutopia: Nuclear Families, Atomic Cities, and the Great Soviet and American Plutonium Disasters* ISBN9780190233105

## Assignments


#### *Boarding School Seasons* Paper

A short paper tackling some of the issues of Native American history through the first half of the twentieth century. You should start reading this book as soon as possible as the paper is due relatively early in the semester.

#### *Plutopia* Paper

A short paper analyzing the issues of the Cold War and it's environmental, political, and social impacts. Additional information on the paper and the prompt will be distributed later in the semester.

#### Midterm

One exam, taken in class on the date listed in the course schedule. The exam will be comprised of short identifications and one essay question.

#### Final Exam

Hour and fifty minute exam that will have the same structure as the midterm exam with the addition of a cumulative essay covering how specific themes influenced United States history. 

#### Attendance

I will take attendance 10 times randomly throughout the semester. Students who show up more than 10 minutes late to class or leave early without prior approval will not earn attendance points. I also reserve the right to withhold attendance points if you are on your phone, sleeping, or anything else that prevents you from being both physically and mentally present during lecture. Any issue disruptive to the learning process is classified as a class conduct violation and students who receive more than two class conduct violations will lose 25 points for each subsequent violation.

## Grades

  Assignment                         1000 points  Breakdown
  ------------------------           ---------    ---------
  Attendance	                      200 Points
  *Shadows at Dawn* Paper             200 Points
  *March* Paper                       200 Points  
  Midterm                             150 Points    50 for IDs, 100 for essay   
  Final Exam	                      250 Points    IDs 50 points; essays 100


The following key will determine your letter grade:

  Grade   Percentage
  ------- ---------
  A       90% and above
  B       80%-89%
  C       70%-79%
  D       60-69%
  F       59% and below

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account in the grading. 

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), I **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see me in person

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- January 21: 100% refund for dropped class
- January 24: Partial refund for dropped class
- February 26: Six week grades
- April 10: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

You may only turn in work for 48 hours after the assignment is due, with a 10% grade reduction per 24 hour period (e.g. work is due at the start of the class period listed, you have until the start of the next class period to submit the assignment for late credit). Any work submitted after this point will not be accepted. Extensions for full credit will only be granted in extremely rare circumstances (i.e. serious illness, family emergency) with the appropriate documentation.

Absences that are scheduled ahead of time are not a reason for an extension, students missing class for scheduled reasons need to complete the work ahead of time or schedule an alternative exam time prior to the missed class session. Failure to notify me of conflicts in a timely manner will result penalties for late work.

No extra credit assignments will be offered this semester. Additionally students may not re-do assignments for additional points. All grades are final once submitted.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops may only be used for note-taking, students using electronics for unapproved functions will lose all their attendance points for the semester.
- Cellphones must be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk. I reserve the right to talk to anyone's mother who calls during class if the phone rings.
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is explicitly prohibited.
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- Powerpoints and class lectures are not posted online. It is the student's responsibility to secure any notes from classes missed due to absences.
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. You will be asked to leave/lose attendance points if you are not able to conduct yourself in a professional manner.

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of his/her disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to www.okstate.edu/ucs/stdis/ for additional information.

**NOTE**: Students with SDS accommodations need to either attend office hours or schedule an appointment to discuss the accommodations before the end of the second week of classes.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

\newpage

# Class Schedule

Schedule subject to change.

Additional readings will be distributed over the semester as warranted.

**All exams are in the same location as lectures**

- **DUE BY FRIDAY OF WEEK THREE**: Three large version blank blue books

## Week 1 (1/13 — 1/17):  Introductions and The Process of History

## Week 2 (1/20 — 8/24): Reconstruction
* **Monday**: No Class, MLK, Jr. Day
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 15
* Reading Mississippi Black Codes and 14th Amendment in Reading From the Norton Mix

## Week 3 (1/27 — 1/31): Gilded Age
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 16

## Week 4 (2/3 — 2/7): American Empire
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 17

## Week 5 (2/10 — 2/14): Progressive Era
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 18
* **Wednesday** - *Boarding School Seasons* Paper Due Hard Copy in Class and Canvas

## Week 6 (2/17 — 2/21): World War I
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 19

## Week 7 (2/24 — 2/28): The Roaring Twenties and the Crash
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 20

## Week 8 (3/2 — 3/6): The Depression and The Second World War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 21

## Week 9 (3/9 — 3/13): The Cold War and American Foreign Policy
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 22
* **Monday**: Midterm

## Week 10 (3/16 — 3/20): Spring Break
 
## Week 11 (3/23 — 3/27): Vietnam and the Civil Rights Movement
* Read the American GIs and Nurses document in the Reading from the Norton Mix Section of the textbook

## Week 12 (3/30 — 4/3): The Tumultous '60s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 24-25

## Week 13 (4/6 — 4/10):  The Rise of Conservatism and the 1970s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 26 (First half)

## Week 14 (4/13 — 4/17): Reagan's Revolution and the New World Order
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 26 (Second Half)
* **Wednesday**: *Plutopia* Paper due hard copy and on Canvas

## Week 15 (4/20 — 4/24): The 1990s
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 27

## Week 16 (4/27 — 5/1): The History of Your Lifetime
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 28

## Final Exam: Friday, May 8th, 10:00AM-11:50AM