% History 1493 United States History Since 1865
% Fall 2023
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States since the end of the Civil War in 1865. The course will cover the major themes of American history during the period as well as attempt to provide some understanding of the process relating to the construction of history and its interpretations. 


# Contact Information

Office Hours: MW 10AM-11:30AM or by appt.\
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>                  

Office hours can be available virtually. Students wishing to attend office hours via Zoom should contact the appropriate period to schedule the meeting. 

Teaching assistant contact information and office hours are available on Canvas.

## Notes on Contacting Us

Emails sent to myself or your TA are professional messages and need to be treated as such. Additionally because I teach multiple courses all your emails need to include a 1) proper subject, 2) salutation, 3) a reference to the course with either the CRN or date and time, and 4) your full name. Because I have three 1493 courses this semester, I need as much information as possible to make sure I am able to adequately address your email.

Furthermore, this syllabus is your most basic reference source this semester. It provides answers to many of the questions you may have (exams, homework assignments, office hours, etc.) and you should consult this syllabus for answers prior to emailing. Emails that ask questions answered here may not get a response. This policy is not meant to be callous, but rather allows myself and your TA to ensure important emails do not get lost in the shuffle of the semester.

# Required Materials

Your main textbook, Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty* (OSU Custom 7th Edition) is included on the course's online classroom as part of the fees attached to this course. The Foner textbook is required for the course.  **Please note**: The textbook is required for the course assignments and is only available as an ebook on Canvas, W.W. Norton did not produce a hard copy version.  Extensions or makeups will not be granted if you opt-out and lose access to the textbook.

Additionally you need to purchase one other book, Karlos Hill's *The Murder of Emmett Till: A Graphic History*. You need to purchase the hard copy version and this book can be purchased anywhere books are sold, including the student union bookstore. Make sure you purchase this book as soon as possible to avoid delays in shipping, failure to have the books is not an excuse for an extension on the assignments. 

## Assignments

#### Syllabus Quiz

Short multiple choice quiz on Canvas that covers the basics of this syllabus. The quiz is pass/fail.

#### Attendance

I will take attendance 10 times randomly throughout the semester.

#### Primary Source Responses

Three responses to assigned primary source materials. Additional information and the prompts for each of these assignments are available on the corresponding Canvas assignment. You will turn in a digital copy to the appropriate Canvas assignment prior to class on the dates listed in the course schedule. Assignments are graded in increments of 5 (e.g. 50, 45, 40, etc.) 

#### *Emmett Till* Paper

You will write a short paper utilizing the supplemental assigned book to assess historical issues surrounding civil rights and the murder of Emmett Till. The prompt and paper guidelines will be available on the corresponding Canvas assignment a month prior to the paper deadline.

#### Exams

Three in-class exams, exam dates are listed in the syllabus. The first two exams will consist of five short IDs and an essay response. The final exam will consist of five IDs and a cumulative essay response. Study guides for the exams will be on the Canvas assignment two weeks prior to the exam.

\newpage

## Grades

|     Assignment     | Breakdown   |
| :----------------: | :-------:   |
|   Syllabus Quiz    |    5%       |
|    Attendance      |    15%      |
|  Reading Responses |    15%      |
| *Emmett Till* Paper|    20%      | 
|  Exams             |    15% Each |

The following key will determine your letter grade (All grades are rounded to the nearest whole number):

| Grade |  Percentage   |
| :---: | :-----------: |
|   A   | 90% and above |
|   B   |    80%-89%    |
|   C   |    70%-79%    |
|   D   |    60-69%     |
|   F   | Less than 60% |

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) **with the person who graded their work** to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account by your grader. If I did not grade your assignment I will only meet with you *after* you have talked to the TA. We reserve the right to raise *or* lower your grade at these meetings.

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), we **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see us in person.

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- August 28 (Monday): 100% refund for dropped class
- September 1 (Friday): Partial refund for dropped class
- October 4 (Wednesday): Six Week Grades
- November 10 (Friday): Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work/Resubmissions

- All out of class assignments are due to Canvas by 11:59PM on the date listed in the syllabus. After the deadline you have two days to submit the assignment for late work credit with 10% off per day late. Requests for full credit extensions must have appropriate documentation, requests for full credit extensions without documentation will not be granted.
- In-class exams are only available for make-up with approved absences with appropriate documentation (e.g. illness). The late work policy does not apply to in-class exams and requests for makeups without appropriate documentation will not be granted.
- Course absences due to scheduled events (e.g. field trips, sports absences, etc.) are not grounds for making up the assignment at a later date. If you know you are going to be absent for an event you need to either submit the assignment early or schedule a time to take the exam prior to the class period in which it is offered.
- Technical issues cannot be sufficiently verified and do not qualify for extensions on assignments. If you run into a technical issue prior to the deadline, email Dr. Eberle a copy of the assignment as an email attachment *prior to the deadline*, links to Google Docs or other online services will not be accepted.
- Assignments may not be resubmitted or revised for additional credit after the assignment deadline has passed. Make sure to verify your submission to Canvas is both the correct assignment and displaying correctly. Wrongly submitted assignments are not grounds for resubmissions.

#### Extra Credit

There are **two extra credit opportunities in the course this semester**. First, students who turn in all assignments on-time this semester will receive 25 extra points at the end of the semester. Students with an approved extension request will still be eligible for the bonus points. Second, if 75% of the class completes the online course evaluation at the end of the semester, the entire class will receive 25 bonus points on the final exam. There are no additional opportunities for bonus points this semester.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops are only allowed for note taking. Any non-class use will be subject to dismissal from class and loss of attendance points. 
- Cellphones may not be used at any point during lecture and should be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk, usage will result in dismissal from class and loss of attendance points.
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is strictly prohibited.
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. 

#### Accessibility Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of their disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Accessibility Services. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to https://accessibility.okstate.edu for additional information.

**Students wishing to use SAS accommodations must see me in office hours to discuss their accommodations**

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

Specific course policies:

- All work must be your own original work this semester. You are not allowed to re-use or re-submit assignments from other courses or work with others on completing assignments.
- Outside sources are strictly prohibited in the course. You may only use the assigned course materials and lecture notes to complete assignments in the course.
- The use of artificial intelligence programs such as ChatGPT is strictly prohibited in the course.


\newpage

# Class Schedule (Subject to Change)

### Due Dates

- 8/27: Syllabus Quiz
- 9/6: Primary Source Response #1
- 9/20: In-Class Exam
- 10/4: Primary Source Response #2
- 10/18: In-Class Exam
- 11/8: Emmett Till Paper
- 11/29: Primary Source Response #3
- 12/11 or 12/13: Final Exam (Check Canvas for correct date and time)

### Week 1 (8/21 - 8/25): Introductions and The Process of History
- **DUE SUNDAY** Syllabus Quiz
* **DUE BY WEEK TWO**: Two blue books to a TA or myself in office hours

### Week 2 (8/28 - 9/1): Reconstruction
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 15

### Week 3 (9/4 - 9/8): The West
- **MONDAY**: No Class, Labor Day
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #1
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 16

### Week 4 (9/11 - 9/15): Gilded Age
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 16, 17

### Week 5 (9/18 - 9/22): The Progressive Era
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 18
* **WEDNESDAY**: In-class Exam 1

### Week 6 (9/25 - 9/29): American Empire and War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 19

### Week 7 (10/2 - 10/6): The 1920s and the Crash
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 20
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #2

### Week 8 (10/9 - 10/13): The Great Depression
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 21

### Week 9 (10/16 - 10/20): World War II and the Early Cold War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 22
* **WEDNESDAY**: In-class Exam 2

### Week 10 (10/23 - 10/27): Civil Rights Movement
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 24-25

### Week 11 (10/30 - 11/3): Vietnam and The Tumultous '60s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 25

### Week 12 (11/6 - 11/10):The Rise of Conservatism and the 1970s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 26 (First half)
* **WEDNESDAY**: Emmett Till Paper

### Week 13 (11/13 - 11/17):  Reagan's Revolution
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 26 (Second Half)

### Week 14 (11/20 - 11/24): Thanksgiving

### Week 15 (11/27 - 12/1): New World Order
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 27
* **WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #3

### Week 16 (12/4 - 12/8): The Road to Today
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 28

### Final Exam: Check the course Canvas page for exact date and time.