% History 1493 United States History Since 1865
% Fall 2022
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States since the end of the Civil War in 1865. The course will cover the major themes of American history during the period as well as attempt to provide some understanding of the process relating to the construction of history and its interpretations. 


# Contact Information

Office Hours: Tuesday 2PM-5PM or by appt.\
Office Hours Sign-Up: <https://calendly.com/jared-eberle/office-hours> \
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>                  

Office hours are available virtually or in-person. Appointments are not required but those with appointments will be seen before walk-ins. If you want to guarantee you can attend office hours, make sure to schedule an appointment through the link above. If you need to schedule an office hours appointment outside the scheduled office hours time slot please email me ahead of time. Walk-ins will not be seen outside of scheduled office hours.

Teaching assistant contact information and office hours are available on Canvas.

## Notes on Contacting Us

Emails sent to myself or your TA are professional messages and need to be treated as such. Additionally because I teach multiple courses all your emails need to include a 1) proper subject, 2) salutation, 3) a reference to the course with either the CRN or date and time, and 4) your full name. Because I have three 1493 courses this semester, I need as much information as possible to make sure I am able to adequately address your email.

Furthermore, this syllabus is your most basic reference source this semester. It provides answers to many of the questions you may have (exams, homework assignments, office hours, etc.) and you should consult this syllabus for answers prior to emailing. Emails that ask questions answered here may not get a response. This policy is not meant to be callous, but rather allows myself and your TA to ensure important emails do not get lost in the shuffle of the semester.

# Required Materials

Your main textbook, Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty* (OSU Custom 6th Edition) is included on the course's online classroom as part of the fees attached to this course. The Foner textbook is required for the course.  **Please note**: The textbook is required for the course assignments and is only available as an ebook on Canvas, W.W. Norton did not produce a hard copy version.  Extensions or makeups will not be granted if you opt-out and lose access to the textbook.

Additionally you need to purchase one other book, Andrew Kirk's *Doom Towns: The People and Landscapes of Atomic Testing* ([Amazon link](https://www.amazon.com/Doom-Towns-Landscapes-Testing-Graphic/dp/0199375909/)). This book can be purchased anywhere books are sold, including the student union bookstore. Make sure you purchase this book as soon as possible to avoid delays in shipping, failure to have the books is not an excuse for an extension on the assignments. 

## Assignments

#### Syllabus Quiz

Short multiple choice quiz on Canvas that covers the basics of this syllabus. The quiz is pass/fail.

#### Attendance

I will take attendance 10 times randomly throughout the semester.

#### Primary Source Responses

Four responses to assigned primary source materials. Additional information and the prompts for each of these assignments are available on the corresponding Canvas assignment. You will turn in a digital copy to the appropriate Canvas assignment prior to class on the dates listed in the course schedule. Assignments are graded in increments of 5 (e.g. 50, 45, 40, etc.) 

#### *Doom Towns* Paper

You will write a short paper utilizing the supplemental assigned book to assess historical issues surrounding the Cold War. The prompt and paper guidelines will be available on the corresponding Canvas assignment a month prior to the paper deadline.

#### Midterm

A take-home exam comprised of an essay and identifications. You will have a week to complete the exam and submit it to Canvas.

#### Final Exam

A take-home exam comprised of two essay questions. The first essay question will cover events of the second half of the course. The second essay will be a cumulative essay question that will ask to you address an overarching theme in history using examples from throughout the semester.

\newpage 

## Grades

|     Assignment     | Breakdown |
| :----------------: | :-------: |
|   Syllabus Quiz    |    100 points    |
|    Attendance      |    50 points     |
|  Reading Responses |    200 points    |
| *Doom Towns* Paper |    200 points    | 
|      Midterm       |    150 points     |
|       Final        |    200 points    |

The following key will determine your letter grade:

| Grade |  Percentage   |
| :---: | :-----------: |
|   A   | 90% and above |
|   B   |    80%-89%    |
|   C   |    70%-79%    |
|   D   |    60-69%     |
|   F   | Less than 60% |

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) **with the person who graded their work** to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account by your grader. If I did not grade your assignment I will only meet with you *after* you have talked to the TA. We reserve the right to raise *or* lower your grade at these meetings.

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), we **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see us in person.

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- August 29 (Monday): 100% refund for dropped class
- September 2 (Friday): Partial refund for dropped class
- October 5 (Wednesday): Six Week Grades
- November 11 (Friday): Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

All assignments are due to Canvas by 11:59PM on the date listed in the syllabus. After the deadline you have three days to submit the assignment for late work credit with 10% off per day late (the late work window **does not** apply to the final exam). Late work penalties are automatically deducted by Canvas and the late work window starts immediately after the full credit deadline. Once the late work window has passed assignments may not be submitted for credit except in extenuating circumstances with appropriate dated documentation provided at the time of the request. Any requests for extensions without documentation will not be granted. Technical issues cannot be sufficiently verified and do not qualify for extensions so do not wait until the late minute to submit assignments to avoid late penalties or missed assignments.

#### Resubmissions / Extra Credit

You have unlimited submissions prior to the assignment deadline and we will grade the most recent submission (excluding syllabus quiz which offers two attempts). Once the deadline passes assignments cannot be resubmitted or redone for additional credit. Make sure you verify your assignment has been submitted to Canvas and is the correct assignment to ensure credit. Wrongly submitted assignments are not grounds for extensions or makeups.

There are **two extra credit opportunities in the course this semester**. First, students who turn in all assignments on-time this semester will receive 25 extra points at the end of the semester. Students with an approved extension request will still be eligible for the bonus points. Second, if 75% of the class completes the online course evaluation at the end of the semester, the entire class will receive 25 bonus points on the final exam. There are no additional opportunities for bonus points this semester, except for anyone who correctly emails me by full credit dealine for the syllabus quiz with their favorite anything.[^1]

[^1]: Sports team, book, music, movie, food, etc. Cannot be sent during class time. You only have one chance, so don't mess it up.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops are only allowed for note taking. Any non-class use will be subject to dismissal from class and loss of attendance points. 
- Cellphones may not be used at any point during lecture and should be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk, usage will result in dismissal from class and loss of attendance points.
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is strictly prohibited.
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. 

#### Accessibility Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of their disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Accessibility Services. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to https://accessibility.okstate.edu for additional information.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

All work completed for the course must be your own original work and only utilize assigned course materials. You are not allowed to work on assignments with others, re-submit previously used assignments, or use outside sources. Failure to comply can result in failure on the assignment or formal academic integrity inquiries. 

\newpage

# Class Schedule (Subject to Change)

### Due Dates

- 8/26: Syllabus Quiz
- 9/2: Primary Source Response #1
- 9/16: Primary Source Response #2
- 10/14: Primary Source Response #3
- 10/21: Midterm
- 11/4: Reading Response #4
- 11/18: *Doom Towns* Paper
- 12/14: Final Exam

### Week 1 (8/22 - 8/26): Introductions and The Process of History
- **DUE FRIDAY:** Syllabus Quiz

### Week 2 (8/29 - 9/2): Reconstruction
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 15
* **DUE FRIDAY**: Primary Source Response #1

### Week 3 (9/5 - 9/9): The West
- **MONDAY**: No Class, Labor Day
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 16

### Week 4 (9/12 - 9/16): Gilded Age
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 16, 17
- **DUE FRIDAY**: Primary Source Response #2

### Week 5 (9/19 - 9/23): The Progressive Era
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 18

### Week 6 (9/26 - 9/30): American Empire and War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 19

### Week 7 (10/3 - 10/7): The 1920s and the Crash
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 20

### Week 8 (10/10 - 10/14): The Great Depression
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 21
- **DUE FRIDAY**: Primary Source Response #3

### Week 9 (10/17 - 10/21): World War II and the Early Cold War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 22
* **DUE FRIDAY**: Midterm

### Week 10 (10/24 - 10/28): Civil Rights Movement
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 24-25

### Week 11 (10/31 - 11/4): Vietnam and The Tumultous '60s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 25
* **DUE FRIDAY**: Primary Source Response #4

### Week 12 (11/7 - 11/11):The Rise of Conservatism and the 1970s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 26 (First half)

### Week 13 (11/14 - 11/18):  Reagan's Revolution
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 26 (Second Half)
* **DUE FRIDAY**: *Doom Towns* Paper

### Week 14 (11/21 - 11/25): Thanksgiving

### Week 15 (11/28 - 12/2): New World Order
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 27

### Week 16 (12/5 - 12/9): The Road to Today
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 28

### Final Exam: Due to Canvas by 11:59PM, December 14th