% History 1493 American History Since 1865
% Fall 2024
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States since the end of the Civil War in 1865. The course will cover the major themes of American history during the period as well as attempt to provide some understanding of the process relating to the construction of history and its interpretations. 


# Contact Information

Office: 154 Social Sciences and Humanities
Office Hours: MW 10AM-11:30AM or by appt.\
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>                   

Teaching assistant contact information and office hours are available on Canvas.

**Mandatory Reporting Notice**: All communications are kept confidential except in two circumstances. As University employees I (and the TAs) are required by law to report statements of self harm and sexual violence. Under Title IX I must inform the University of all reports of sexual violence regardless of circumstances or requests to not report. The University has confidential reporters who can assist you if you do not want the information reported to the University. Students who wish to take this option should contact the OSU victim advocates at 405-564-2129 or email advocate@okstate.edu.

## Resources

- [LASSO Center](https://universitycollege.okstate.edu/lasso/): Tutoring and academic support coaches
- [OSU Counseling](https://ucs.okstate.edu): University Counseling including emergency support options
- [Victim Support Services](https://1is2many.okstate.edu/find-support/support-for-victims/index.html): Sexual violence support and reporting information.

## Notes on Contacting Us

Please ensure all emails include your full name, course information (date and time or five digit CRN), and relevant information on the issue. Emails without subjects, names, or course information are more difficult to address as I have three sections of 1493. 

# Required Materials

Your textbook, Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty* (OSU Custom 7th Edition) is included on the course's online classroom as part of the fees attached to this course. The Foner textbook is required for the course.  **Please note**: The textbook is required for the course assignments and is only available as an ebook on Canvas, W.W. Norton did not produce a hard copy version.  Extensions or makeups will not be granted if you opt-out and lose access to the textbook.

Additionally, all students need to provide three blank full-sized blue books by the end of the second week of the course. Blue books must be turned in during office hours with either Dr. Eberle or a TA. Failure to provide blue books will result in not being able to take the course's in-person exams

## Assignments

#### Syllabus Quiz

Short multiple choice quiz on Canvas that covers the basics of this syllabus. The quiz is pass/fail.

#### Attendance

Attendance will utilize the iClicker app and will be taken every class period. You will need to download the free app and register for the appropriate course prior to the start of the semester. Attendance will run for the first ten minutes of the course, after iClicker will not record attendance. You must ensure you are on time for the course to ensure attendance credit. Students who check-in and leave early will not receive attendance credit and repeat issues will result in the loss of all attendance points. The attendance grade will take into account 40 class periods with each class being worth 5 points towards the total grade. 

**Note**: How attendance is taken is subject to change depending on class scheduling issues or other circumstances. Attendance updates will be posted on Canvas prior to any change. Excused absences are provided for illness with appropriate documentation and university-approved functions. All documentation should be submitted in a timely manner to Dr. Eberle to ensure attendance credit is adjusted accordingly.

#### Primary Source Responses

Five responses to assigned primary source materials. Additional information and the prompts for each of these assignments are available on the corresponding Canvas assignment. You will turn in a digital copy to the appropriate Canvas assignment prior to class on the dates listed in the course schedule. Assignments are graded in increments of 5 (e.g. 50, 45, 40, etc.) 

#### In-Semester Exams

Two in-class exams, exam dates are listed in the syllabus. The first two exams will consist of five short IDs and an essay response. Study guides for the exams will be on the Canvas assignment two weeks prior to the exam.

#### Final Exam

The final exam will consist of two essays, a non-cumulative essay and a cumulative essay. Study guides for the exams will be on the Canvas assignment two weeks prior to the exam.

\newpage

## Grades

|     Assignment     | Breakdown   |
| :----------------: | :-------:   |
|  Syllabus Quiz     |    5%       |
|  Attendance        |    20%      |
|  Reading Responses |    25%      | 
|  Exams             |    15% Each |
|  Final.            |    20%      | 

The following key will determine your letter grade (All grades are rounded to the nearest whole number):

| Grade |  Percentage   |
| :---: | :-----------: |
|   A   | 90% and above |
|   B   |    80%-89%    |
|   C   |    70%-79%    |
|   D   |    60-69%     |
|   F   | Less than 60% |

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) **with the person who graded their work** to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account by your grader. If I did not grade your assignment I will only meet with you *after* you have talked to the TA. We reserve the right to raise *or* lower your grade at these meetings.

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), we **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see us in person.

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- August 26 (Monday): 100% refund for dropped class
- August 30 (Friday): Partial refund for dropped class
- October 2 (Wednesday): Six Week Grades
- November 8 (Friday): Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work/Resubmissions

- All out of class assignments are due to Canvas by 5PM on the date listed in the syllabus. After the deadline you have 48 hours to submit the assignment for late work credit with 10% off per day late. Requests for full credit extensions must have appropriate documentation for extenuating circumstances and extensions are not my discretion. 
- Exams do not have a late work window for completion. Exams may only be made up with appropriate documentation for extenuating circumstances and all makeups are at my discretion.
- Course absences due to scheduled events (e.g. field trips, sports absences, etc.) are not grounds for making up the assignment at a later date. If you know you are going to be absent for an event you need to either submit the assignment early or schedule a time to take the exam prior to the class period in which it is offered.
- Technical issues do not qualify for extensions on assignments. If you run into a technical issue prior to the deadline, email Dr. Eberle a copy of the assignment as an email attachment *prior to the deadline*, links to Google Docs or other online services will not be accepted.
- Assignments may not be resubmitted or revised for additional credit after the assignment deadline has passed. Make sure to verify your submission to Canvas is both the correct assignment and displaying correctly. Wrongly submitted assignments are not grounds for resubmissions.

#### Extra Credit

There are **two extra credit opportunities in the course this semester**. First, students who turn in all assignments on-time this semester will receive 25 extra points at the end of the semester. Students with an approved extension request will still be eligible for the bonus points. Second, if 75% of the class completes the online course evaluation at the end of the semester, the entire class will receive 25 bonus points on the final exam. There are no additional opportunities for bonus points this semester.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops are only allowed for note taking. Any non-class use will be subject to dismissal from class and loss of attendance points. 
- Cellphones may not be used at any point during lecture (excluding iClicker attendance at the start of the period) and should be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk, usage will result in dismissal from class and loss of attendance points.
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is strictly prohibited.
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. 

#### Accessibility Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of their disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Accessibility Services. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to https://accessibility.okstate.edu for additional information.

**Students wishing to use SAS accommodations must see me in office hours to discuss their accommodations**

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

Specific course policies:

- All work must be your own original work this semester. You are not allowed to re-use or re-submit assignments from other courses or work with others on completing assignments.
- Outside sources are strictly prohibited in the course. You may only use the assigned course materials and lecture notes to complete assignments in the course.
- The use of artificial intelligence programs such as ChatGPT is strictly prohibited in the course.

\newpage

# Class Schedule (Subject to Change)

### Due Dates

- 8/25: Syllabus Quiz
- 9/4: Primary Source Response #1
- 9/20: In-Class Exam
- 10/2: Primary Source Response #2
- 10/18: In-Class Exam
- 10/30: Primary Source Response #3
- 11/6: Primary Source Response #4
- 11/20: Primary Source Response #5
- 12/9 or 12/11: Final Exam (Check Canvas for correct date and time)

### Week 1 (8/19 - 8/23): Introductions and The Process of History
- **DUE SUNDAY** Syllabus Quiz
* **DUE BY WEEK TWO**: Three blue books to a TA or myself in office hours

### Week 2 (8/26 - 8/30): Reconstruction
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 15

### Week 3 (9/2 - 9/6): The West
- **MONDAY**: No Class, Labor Day
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 16
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #1

### Week 4 (9/9 - 9/13): Gilded Age
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 16, 17

### Week 5 (9/16 - 9/20): The Progressive Era
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 18
* **FRIDAY**: In-class Exam 1

### Week 6 (9/23 - 9/27): American Empire and War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 19

### Week 7 (9/30 - 10/4): The 1920s and the Crash
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 20
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #2

### Week 8 (10/7 - 10/11): The Great Depression
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 21

### Week 9 (10/14 - 10/18): World War II and the Early Cold War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 22
* **FRIDAY**: In-class Exam 2

### Week 10 (10/21 - 10/25): Civil Rights Movement
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 24-25

### Week 11 (10/28 - 11/1): Vietnam and The Tumultuous '60s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 25
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #3

### Week 12 (11/4 - 11/8):The Rise of Conservatism and the 1970s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 26 (First half)
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #4

### Week 13 (11/11 - 11/15):  Reagan's Revolution
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 26 (Second Half)

### Week 14 (11/18 - 11/22): New World Order
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 27
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response #5

### Week 15 (11/25 - 11/29): Fall Break/Thanksgiving

### Week 16 (12/2 - 12/6): The Road to Today
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 28

### Final Exam: Check the course Canvas page for exact date and time.
