% History 1493.71648: United States History Since 1865
% Fall 2020 — MWF 2:30PM-3:15PM, Colvin Center 040
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States since the end of the Civil War in 1865. The course will cover the major themes of American history during the period as well as attempt to provide some understanding of the process relating to the construction of history and its interpretations. 

# Contact Information

Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu> \
Office Hours: 9AM-Noon Wednesday \
Google Voice Number (texts only): (559) 332-3753            

When you email or text please include the course information (date and time or CRN -- 71648) so I can know which course and section you are writing about.

## TAs

| Roger Moore                      | B. Hinesley                              |
| ---------------------            | ---------------------------------------- |
| Office Hours: T/R by appointment | Office Hours: M 10:30AM - 1:30PM         |
| mroger@okstate.edu               | b.hinesley@okstate.edu                   |
| Office Hours via Zoom            | Office hours via Zoom or Microsoft Teams |

## Office Hours

All office hours this semester will be conducted virtually, the teaching assistants and I will not be available to meet in-person due to OSU social distancing policies. Information on scheduling an appointment to meet with Dr. Eberle is below.

### Scheduling an Appointment

Please sign-up for slots [through Calendly](https://calendly.com/jared-eberle/office-hours), you'll receive all the meeting information via email after the sign-up is complete. If you wish to meet via another virtual method, please send me an email to discuss options.

# Required Materials

There are no books required for purchase in this course. All assigned materials will be distributed through Canvas. Additionally the course will utilize *The American Yawp*, a free, peer-reviewed textbook produced by Stanford University Press. The textbook is available [online](http://www.americanyawp.com) either as web pages or downloadable PDFs. You can also optionally chose to purchase a hard copy version of the text through the website.

## Assignments

#### Syllabus Quiz

A short multiple choice quiz on Canvas to check that you've read the full syllabus. 

#### Introductory Paper

This paper will ask you to put yourself into the mind of a historian and consider how your life, up until now will be remembered by future historians. More guidelines are available on the Canvas assignment page.

#### Reading Responses

Five times throughout the semester you will write short responses analyzing assigned readings and considering how they influence our understanding of history.

#### Midterm

A take-home essay-based exam that will cover material from the first half of the course. I will provide you a selection of essays to choose from and you will write responses to two of them. Guidelines and prompts will be distributed through the Canvas assignment one week before the assignment deadline.

#### Final Exam

As with the midterm, your final exam will be a take-home essay-based exam but will be comprised of three essays instead of two. The first two essays will be non-cumulative and only cover lessons since the midterm. The third essay will be a cumulative essay that will ask you to consider broad issues in American history and you will need to utilize material from the entire semester in writing your response. The final exam will be available beginning the Saturday after classwork ends and will be open for submissions through the end of the course's assigned exam slot. 

## Grades

| Assignment          |               500 points |  Breakdown |
| :---:       |    :---: |   :---: |
|   Syllabus Quiz    | 50 Points  | |
| Introductory Paper | 50 Points  |                     |
| Reading Responses  | 150 Points |   30 points each    |
|      Midterm       | 100 Points | 50 points per essay |
| Final Exam	| 150 Points | 50 points per essay |


The following key will determine your overall letter grade:

| Grade |  Percentage | Points |
| ------- |  -------- | ---- |
| A     |  90% and above | 450 points and above |
|B     |  80%-89% | 400-449 |
| C   |    70%-79% | 350-399 |
| D |      60-69% | 300-349 |
| F   |    59% and below | Below 300 |

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account in the grading. 

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to meet with their grader virtually during office hours.

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- August 24: 100% refund for dropped class
- August 28: Partial refund for dropped class
- September 30: Six week grades
- November 6: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

Coursework may be turned in for one week following the assignment due date with a 5% grade deduction per 24 hour period. Assignments may not be turned in for credit after the late work window has closed on Canvas. If a situation arises in which you cannot complete the assignment on-time you need to email me the appropriate document to be considered for a full-credit extension. Any full-credit extension requests need to be requested as soon as possible, requests well after the deadline will not be considered.

No extra credit assignments will be offered this semester. Additionally students may not re-do assignments for additional points. All grades are final once submitted.

#### Class conduct

- **Assigned seating is mandated by the University, if you miss the first class, consult Dr. Eberle for an available seat**
- In order to comply with social distancing guidelines please do congregate at the front of the classroom to ask questions. If you have questions please email or text them.
- Laptops may only be used for note-taking, students using electronics for unapproved functions will be asked to leave class.
- Cellphones must be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk. I reserve the right to talk to anyone's mother who calls during class if the phone rings.
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is explicitly prohibited.
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. You will be asked to leave/lose attendance points if you are not able to conduct yourself in a professional manner.

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of their disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to www.okstate.edu/ucs/stdis/ for additional information.

**NOTE**: Students with SDS accommodations need to either attend office hours or schedule an appointment to discuss the accommodations before the end of the second week of classes.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

\newpage

# Class Schedule

Schedule subject to change because it's 2020.

All *American Yawp* primary sources are within the corresponding chapter assigned for that week

## Week 1 (8/17 -- 8/21):  What does it mean to write history?

- **Friday**: Syllabus Quiz due to Canvas by 11:59PM

## Week 2 (8/24 -- 8/28): How did the nation rebuild following the Civil War?

- **Friday: Reading Response 1 due to Canvas by 11:59PM**
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: *American Yawp,* "Reconstruction" and "The West"
* Reading Mississippi Black Codes, *American Yawp* Primary Source Reader ("Reconstruction" Chapter)

## Week 3 (8/31 -- 9/4): Why was the Gilded Age so striking?

* **Wednesday: Introductory paper due to Canvas by 11:59PM**
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "Capital and Labor" and "Life in Industrial America"
- Jacob Riis, "How The Other Half Lives," *American Yawp* Primary Source Reader ("Life in Industrial America" Chapter)

## Week 4 (9/7 -- 9/11): How did the United States become an empire?

* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: *American Yawp,* "American Empire"

## Week 5 (9/14 -- 9/18): How did the federal government start regulating meat?

* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "The Progressive Era"
- Eugene Debs, "How I became a Socialist," *American Yawp* Primary Source Reader

## Week 6 (9/21 -- 9/25): Why did a bunch of Oklahoma socialists think they could overthrow the government?

**Friday: Reading Response 2 due to Canvas by 11:59PM**
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "World War I & Its Aftermath"
- "When the Socialist Revolution Came to Oklahoma -- And Was Crushed," *Smithsonian Magazine* [Available online](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/socialist-revolution-oklahoma-crushed-green-corn-rebellion-180973073/)
* "The Nightmare of Dreamland," Lee Roy Chapman, *This Land Press* [Available online](https://thislandpress.com/2012/04/18/tate-brady-battle-greenwood/)

## Week 7 (9/28 -- 10/2): How roaring were the twenties in reality?

* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "The New Era"
- "Black Wall Street: The African American Haven That Burned and Then Rose From the Ashes," *The Ringer* [Available online](https://www.theringer.com/2018/6/28/17511818/black-wall-street-oklahoma-greenwood-destruction-tulsa)

## Week 8 (10/5 -- 10/9): What did the New Deal do if it didn't end the Depression?

* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "The Great Depression" and "World War II"

## Week 9 (10/12 -- 10/16): Were there really communists in the US government?

* **Wednesday: Midterm due on Canvas by 11:59PM**
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "The Cold War" and "The Affluent Society"

## Week 10 (10/19 -- 10/23): Why we need to view civil rights as more than that one Martin Luther King Jr. speech

**Friday: Reading Response 3 due to Canvas by 11:59PM**
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* sections of "The Affluent Society" and "The Sixties" that deal with civil rights
- Martin Luther King, Jr., "Letter from a Birmingham Jail" [Available online](http://www.africa.upenn.edu/Articles_Gen/Letter_Birmingham.html)
- Stokley Carmichael, "Black Power" [Available online](https://www.blackpast.org/african-american-history/speeches-african-american-history/1966-stokely-carmichael-black-power/)
- Casey Hayden and Mary King, "Sex and Caste," Readings from the Norton Mix
- "What does a traffic jam in Atlanta have to do with segregation? Quite a lot." Kevin Kruse, *New York Times* [Available online](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/traffic-atlanta-segregation.html)

## Week 11 (10/26 -- 10/30): How much love was in the "Summer of Love?"

- Textbook supplement to lecture: *American Yawp,* "The Sixties"
- "Occupation of Alcatraz Proclamation", Available on Canvas

* Listen to 1960s Playlist on Canvas

## Week 12 (11/2 -- 11/6): Did America become more conservative in the 1970s?

**Friday: Reading Response 4 due to Canvas by 11:59PM**
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "The Unraveling"
- "The Strange Love of Dr. Billy James Hargis," Lee Roy Chapman, *This Land Press* [Available online](https://thislandpress.com/2012/11/02/the-strange-love-of-dr-billy-james-hargis/)

## Week 13 (11/9 -- 11/13): How revolutionary was the Reagan Revolution?

* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "Triumph of the Right"
* Listen to the "Singing About Reagan" playlist on Canvas

## Week 14 (11/16 -- 11/20): How divided is America?

**Friday: Reading Response 5 due to Canvas by 11:59PM**
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *Textbook supplement to lecture*: *American Yawp,* "The Recent Past"
* "For centuries, black music, forged in bondage, has been the sound of complete artistic freedom. No wonder everybody is always stealing it." Wesley Morris, *New York Times* [Available online](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/music-black-culture-appropriation.html)
* NPR, "We Insist: A Century Of Black Music Against State Violence" [Available online](https://www.npr.org/2020/06/26/883334741/we-insist-a-century-of-black-music-against-state-violence)

## Week 15 (11/23 -- 11/27): Thanksgiving Break

## Week 16 (11/30 -- 12/4): Wrap-up and Review

- Zoom meetings for anyone with questions on final exam preparations

## Final Exam: Due by 5PM, Friday, December 11^th^
