% History 1103.67758: Survey of American History
% Fall 2020 — TR 10:30-11:45AM, Seretean Center for Performing Arts 125
% Dr. Jared L. Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States beginning with early European-indigenous encounters and continuing through the present day. Students are expected to attend weekly lectures, complete assigned readings, and demonstrate acquired knowledge through exams and an essay assignment. Students are also expected to think critically about the complicated, and possibly controversial, nature of our nation's shared pasts. 

# Contact Information

Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu> \
Office Hours: Wednesdays, 9AM-Noon and appointments gladly given \
Google Voice Number (texts only): (559) 332-3753 \        

When you email or text please include the course information (date and time or CRN -- 67758) so I can know which course and section you are writing about.

## TAs

| John Jeffries             | Sheldon Yeakley             |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| Office Hours: Thurs 1-4PM | Office Hours: TR Noon-1:30PM|
| john.jeffries@okstate.edu | sheldon.yeakley@okstate.edu |
| Office Hours on: Zoom     | Office Hours on: Zoom       |



# Office Hours

All office hours this semester will be conducted virtually, the teaching assistants and I will not be available to meet in-person due to OSU social distancing policies. Contact information for the teaching assistants is included above, please email them to coordinate virtual visits as needed throughout the semester.

## Dr. Eberle Appointments

Please sign-up for slots [through Calendly](https://calendly.com/jared-eberle/office-hours), you'll receive all the meeting information via email after the sign-up is complete. If you wish to meet via another virtual method, please send me an email to discuss options.

# Required Materials

The textbook for this course will be delivered electronically through Canvas and you will be billed directly by the bursar's office. Kate Brown's *Plutopia* is available at the Student Union Store or any major bookseller and you should make sure you purchase the paperback edition. Consider supporting an independent bookstores by purchasing through Bookshop.org. 

\tightlist
* Eric Foner, *Give Me Liberty!*, OSU Brief 6th Edition (Only available on the course's Canvas site as an e-book)
* Kate Brown, *Plutopia: Nuclear Families, Atomic Cities, and the Great Soviet and American Plutonium Disasters* ISBN 9780190233105 [Bookshop.org](https://bookshop.org/books/plutopia-nuclear-families-atomic-cities-and-the-great-soviet-and-american-plutonium-disasters/9780190233105)

## A note on ebook opt-out

You may receive a message from the bookstore about opting out of the ebook. The University is required to send this email, however it does not mean the book is optional. You will need the textbook to complete assignments in the course and as this is a new edition and there is no printed hard copies available, you should not opt out of the ebook.

# Assignments

Submissions will only be accepted electronically through the appropriate Canvas assignment as either a PDF or a Microsoft Word document.

#### Syllabus Quiz 

Standard multiple choice quiz that will check to see that you have looked over the syllabus. Half of which will relate to the syllabus and half of which will be questions to gauge your interpretations on the study of history. Only the first half of the quiz will be graded and will be on a pass/fail standard. Students who get 50% or more right will earn full credit for the assignment, quizzes with less than 50% correct will receive no credit. 

#### Introductory Paper

This paper will ask you to put yourself into the mind of a historian and consider how your life, up until now, will be remembered by future historians. More guidelines are available on the Canvas assignment page.

#### Primary Source Responses

Four short answer assignments that will utilize supplemental primary source materials provided through the electronic textbook for the course. Prompts and guidelines are available on the respective primary source assignment on Canvas.

#### *Plutopia* Paper

A paper responding to the supplemental book assigned for the course. Prompt and guidelines will be available on the Canvas assignment page. Make sure to consult the guidelines prior to writing your paper and ask questions if you are uncertain about anything.

#### Midterm

A take-home essay-based exam that will cover material from the first half of the course. I will provide you a selection of essays to choose from and you will write responses to two of them. Guidelines and prompts will be distributed through the Canvas assignment one week before the assignment deadline.

#### Final Exam

As with the midterm, your final exam will be a take-home essay-based exam but will be comprised of three essays instead of two. The first two essays will be non-cumulative and only cover lessons since the midterm. The third essay will be a cumulative essay that will ask you to consider broad issues in American history and you will need to utilize material from the entire semester in writing your response. Non-cumulative essays are worth 25% of the overall grade and cumulative essay is worth 50% of the assignment grade. The final exam will be available beginning the Saturday after classwork ends and will be open for submissions through the end of the course's assigned exam slot. 

# Grades

| Assignment         | Percentage  |
| :--:               | :--:        |
| Syllabus Quiz      | 10%         |
| Introductory Paper | 10%         |
| Primary Sources    | 5% Each     |
| *Plutopia* Paper   | 20%         |
| Midterm            | 20%         |
| Final              | 20%         |

The following key will determine your letter grade:



| Grade |  Percentage |
|  :---:     |     :---:     |
| A         |  90% and above|
| B      |  80%-89% |
| C |        70%-79% |
|  D     |  60-69% |
|  F |      59% and below |

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account in the grading. 

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), I and the TAs **cannot** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see me during office hours.

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- August 24: 100% refund for dropped class
- August 28: Partial refund for dropped class
- September 30: Six week grades
- November 6: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

Coursework, with the exception of the final exam, may be turned in for one week following the assignment due date with a 5% grade deduction per 24 hour period. Assignments may not be turned in for credit after the late work window has closed on Canvas. If a situation arises in which you cannot complete the assignment on-time you need to email me the appropriate documentation to be considered for a full-credit extension. Any full-credit extension requests need to be requested as soon as possible, requests after the deadline will only be considered in extenuating circumstances.

No extra credit assignments will be offered this semester. Additionally students may not re-do assignments for additional points. All grades are final once submitted.

#### Class conduct

- **Assigned seating mandated by the University, if you miss the first class, consult Dr. Eberle for an available seat**
- **Facial Coverings are required at all times. Consult the include facial coverings policy for more information**
- In order to comply with social distancing guidelines please do congregate at the front of the classroom to ask questions. If you have questions please email or text them.
- Laptops may only be used for note-taking, electronics usage that is disruptive will result in students be asked to leave class.
- Cellphones must be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk. I reserve the right to talk to anyone's mother who calls during class if the phone rings.
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of in-class mterials is explicitly prohibited. All material posted through the Canvas course is the intellectual property of the instructor or appropriate copyright holder. All material may not be re-used without my explict permission.
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. You will be asked to leave/lose attendance points if you are not able to conduct yourself in a professional manner.

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of their disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to www.okstate.edu/ucs/stdis/ for additional information.

**NOTE**: Students with SDS accommodations need to schedule an appointment to discuss the accommodations before the end of the second week of classes.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

\newpage

# Class Schedule

## Week 1 (8/17 -- 8/21):  A New World?
- *Recommended textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 1
- **Friday: Syllabus Quiz due on Canvas by 11:59PM**

## Week 2 (8/24 -- 8/28): The Formation of British America
- *Recommended textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 2 and 3

## Week 3 (8/31 -- 9/4): Revolutionary America
- *Recommended supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 4, 5, and 6
- **Tuesday: Introductory Essay due on Canvas by 11:59PM**

## Week 4 (9/7 -- 9/11): The Early Republic
- *Recommended supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 7 and 8
- **Tuesday: Primary Source #1 due on Canvas by 11:59PM**

## Week 5 (9/14 -- 9/18): The Limitations of America
- *Recommended supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 9 and 10

## Week 6 (9/21 -- 9/25): Slavery and the Move for Reform
- *Recommended supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 11 and 12
- **Tuesday: Primary Source #2 due on Canvas by 11:59PM**

## Week 7 (9/28 -- 10/2): Road to Disunion and Civil War
- *Recommended supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 13 and 14

## Week 8 (10/5 -- 10/9): Reconstruction(s)
- *Recommended supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 15
- **Thursday: Midterm due on Canvas by 11:59PM**

## Week 9 (10/12 -- 10/16): The Rise of Labor and the Progressive Era
- *Recommended supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 16 and 17

## Week 10 (10/19 -- 10/23): Radicalisms and War
- *Recommended supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 18 and 19
- **Tuesday: Primary Source Response #3**

## Week 11 (10/26 -- 10/30): Roaring '20s and the Depression
- *Recommended supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 20 and 21

## Week 12 (11/2 -- 11/6): The Beginning of the American Century
- *Recommended supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 22, 23 and 24
- **Tuesday: Primary Source Response #4**

## Week 13 (11/9 -- 11/13): Civil Rights and the Rise of Conservatism
- *Recommended supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 25 and 26

## Week 14 (11/16 -- 11/20): The End of the American Century?
- *Recommended supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 27 and 28
- **Tuesday: *Plutopia* Paper due on Canvas by 11:59PM**

## Week 15 (11/23 -- 11/27): Thanksgiving Break

## Week 16 (11/30 -- 12/4): Wrap up and Reviews
- Zoom meetings for any questions related to final exam

## Final Exam: Due by Noon, Thursday, December 10^th^
