% History 1493.70094: United States History Since 1865
% Fall 2019 — TR 12:30PM-1:45PM,  Gundersen 103
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States since the end of the Civil War in 1865. The course will cover the major themes of American history during the period as well as attempt to provide some understanding of the process relating to the construction of history and its interpretations. 

# Contact Information

Office: 154 S Murray Hall\
Office Hours: Thursday 9:00AM-12:00PM, or appointments gladly given\
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>              

When you email please include the course information and your full name in the email, this will allow me to effectively respond to your email in a timely manner. Additionally, you do not need an appointment for office hours, but office hours are done first come, first served and are open to students in all of my courses, please plan accordingly.

# Required Materials

Three books required for the course are available for purchase at the OSU Student Union Bookstore and can also be purchased at most major bookstores. Consider supporting an independent bookstore and order from [Bliss Books & Bindery](https://www.blissbooksandbindery.com) in downtown Stillwater. Make sure you have purchased the correct edition.

- Eric Foner, *Give Me Liberty!*, OSU Brief 5th Edition (Available through the course's Canvas site)
- Karl Jacoby, *Shadows at Dawn: An Apache Massacre and the Violence of History* ISBN 9780143116219
- John Lewis, *March: Book One* ISBN 1603093001

## Assignments


#### *Shadows at Dawn* Paper

A short paper tackling some of the issues of Native American history in the second half of the 19th century. You should start reading this book as soon as possible as the paper is due relatively early in the semester.

#### *March* Paper

A short paper analyzing the issues in the Civil Rights Movement utilizing the perspective of U.S. Congressman John Lewis's autobiographical graphic novel, *March*. Additional information on the paper and the prompt will be distributed later in the semester.

#### Exams

Two exams, taken in class on the date listed in the course schedule. The exams will be comprised of multiple choice, short identifications and one essay question.

#### Final Exam

Hour and fifty minute exam that will have the same structure as the first two exams with the addition of a cumulative essay covering how specific themes influenced United States history. 

#### Attendance

I will take attendance 10 times randomly throughout the semester. Students who show up more than 10 minutes late to class or leave early without prior approval will not earn attendance points. I also reserve the right to withhold attendance points if you are on your phone, sleeping, or anything else that prevents you from being both physically and mentally present during lecture. Any issue disruptive to the learning process is classified as a class conduct violation and students who receive more than two class conduct violations will lose 25 points for each subsequent violation.

## Grades

  Assignment                         1000 points  Breakdown
  ------------------------           ---------    ---------
  Attendance	                      200 Points
  *Shadows at Dawn* Paper             200 Points
  *March* Paper                       200 Points  
  Midterm                             150 Points    20 points for multiple choice, 30 for IDs, 100 for essay   
  Final Exam	                      250 Points    Multiple Choice, IDs and non-cumulative essay: 50 points each; 
                                                                   cumulative essay: 100 points

The following key will determine your letter grade:

  Grade   Percentage
  ------- ---------
  A       90% and above
  B       80%-89%
  C       70%-79%
  D       60-69%
  F       59% and below

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account in the grading. 

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), I **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see me in person

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- August 26: 100% refund for dropped class
- August 30: Partial refund for dropped class
- October 2: Six week grades
- November 8: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

You may only turn in work for 48 hours after the assignment is due, with a 10% grade reduction per 24 hour period. Any work submitted after this point will not be accepted. Extensions for full credit will only be granted in extremely rare circumstances (i.e. serious illness, family emergency) with the appropriate documentation.

Absences that are scheduled ahead of time are not a reason for an extension, students missing class for scheduled reasons need to complete the work ahead of time or schedule an alternative exam time prior to the missed class session. Failure to notify me of conflicts in a timely manner will result penalties for late work.

Class Powerpoints and notes are not posted online. It is the responsibility of students who miss class to secure the appropriate notes from someone in class or attend in-person office hours to discuss what was missed in class. 

#### Extra Credit / Resubmissions

No extra credit assignments will be offered this semester. Additionally students may not re-do assignments for additional points. All grades are final once submitted.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops may only be used with my permission. Students wishing to utilize laptops need to attend office hours or schedule an appointment to discuss the matter.
- Cellphones must be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk. 
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is prohibited.
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. You will be asked to leave/lose attendance points if you are not able to conduct yourself in a professional manner.

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of his/her disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to www.okstate.edu/ucs/stdis/ for additional information.

**NOTE**: Students with SDS accommodations need to either attend office hours or schedule an appointment to discuss the accommodations before the end of the second week of classes.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

\newpage

# Class Schedule

Schedule subject to change.

Additional readings will be distributed over the semester as warranted.

**All exams are in the same location as lectures**

- **DUE BY THURSDAY OF WEEK THREE**: Three large version blank blue books

## Week 1 (8/20 — 8/22):  Introductions and The Process of History

## Week 2 (8/27 — 8/29): Reconstruction
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 15
- Reading Mississippi Black Codes and 14th Amendment in Reading From the Norton Mix

## Week 3 (9/3 — 9/5): American Empire
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 17

## Week 4 (9/10 — 9/12): Gilded Age
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 16

## Week 5 (9/17 — 9/19): Progressive Era
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 18
- **Tuesday** - *Shadows at Dawn* Paper Due Hard Copy in Class and Canvas

## Week 6 (9/24 — 9/25): World War I
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 19

## Week 7 (10/1 — 10/3): The Roaring Twenties
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 20

## Week 8 (10/8 — 10/10): The Great Depression
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 21
- **Thursday** - Midterm

## Week 9 (10/15 — 10/17): World War II
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 22
 
## Week 10 (10/22 — 10/24): The Early Cold War
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 23
 
## Week 11 (10/29 — 10/31): Vietnam and Civil Rights
- Read the American GIs and Nurses document in the Reading from the Norton Mix Section of the textbook

## Week 12 (11/5 — 11/7): The Tumultous '60s
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 24-25

## Week 13 (11/12 — 11/14):  The Rise of Conservatism and the 1970s
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 26 (First half)
- **Tuesday** - March Paper Due Hard Copy in class and Canvas

## Week 14 (11/19 — 11/21): Reagan's Revolution
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 26 (Second Half)

## Week 15 (11/26 — 11/28): The 1990s
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 27
- **Thursday** - No Class, Thanksgiving

## Week 16 (12/3 — 12/5): The History of Your Lifetime
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 28

## Final Exam: Thursday, December 12th, 10:00AM-11:50AM