% HIST 3980.65184 / AMST 3980.65185: U.S. History in 15 Songs
% Spring 2019 - T 10:30AM-11:20AM, CLB 222
% Dr. Jared L. Eberle

## Contact Information

Office: 154 S Murray Hall\
Email: jared.eberle@okstate.edu\
Office Hours: 9:00AM-12:00PM Thursday and appointments gladly given\

## About

From slave spirituals of the antebellum era, to jazz clubs of Harlem and Chicago and Bob Dylan's Greenwich Village folk sessions, songs have served an important historical role on both personal and collective levels. Throughout the history of the United States music has provided commentary, solace, and soundtracks for critical events. Over the next sixteen weeks we will examine fifteen songs that help us understand aspects of American history throughout alternative lenses.

## Readings/Materials

This course has no assigned textbooks. All materials related to the course will be posted on the content tab of the course's Canvas page, https://canvas.okstate.edu as warranted.

## Assignments

**Weekly Responses** - You are required to spend roughly 60 minutes researching the song, artist, and topic each week. Afterward type a one-page minimum summary of each week’s song selection (double-spaced, standard font and formatting, no header except your name). Your paper should 1) demonstrate a sufficient amount of time researching the week's song, 2) provide historical background on the artist and/or composer, 3) analyze the song’s meaning, 4) contextualize your song within its contemporary history, and 5) draw connections to wider chronological and thematic contours of United States history. Any material used should be cited as needed. These are due at the end of each weekly meeting and will form the basis for that week's discussion and cannot be made up for late credit.

**Final Paper** - Pick a topic/theme in U.S. history (this can be conceived as broadly or narrowly as you wish) and create a playlist for that topic. Further details at the end of the syllabus.

**Attendance / Participation** - This course only meets once a week for a fifty minutes, so attendance is of the utmost importance. Additionally the course is rooted in your ideas as much as anything and as such you should expect to not only be present for every class but be engaged in discussions. As such a substantial part of your grade assesses your attendance and participation on a weekly basis.

## Grading

Assignment               500 points Breakdown
------------------------ ---------  ----- 
Weekly Responses         150 Points  10 points each
Final Paper              200 Points 
Attendance/Participation 150 Points  75 for attendance/75 for participation


The following key will determine your letter grade:

  Grade   Percentage
  ------- ---------
  A       90% and above
  B       80%-89%
  C       70%-79%
  D       60-69%
  F       59% and below

**NOTE**: Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), I **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see me in person.

## Additional Policies

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- Monday, August 26: Nonrestrictive Add/Drop deadline
- Friday, August 30: Restrictive Add/Drop deadline
- Wednesday, October 2: Six Week Grades
- Friday, November 8: Drop Deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive an "I" paired with the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B, I/C). **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

#### Late Work

Work may be turned in up to 48 hours after the assigned deadline for a 10% deduction per day, work turned in after 48 hours will not be graded. Extensions will only be granted at my discretion and will only happen in extremely rare circumstances (i.e. serious illness, family emergency). In these circumstances you need to notify me as soon as you know. Accommodations will not be given if you fail to give me proper notice or do not provide adequate documentation.

#### Class conduct

- The use of computers or other electronics is prohibited. You should bring all relevant materials you need for class in hard copy form. 
- **Do not pack up prior to the end of class**, as it is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the material. 
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides without my permission is prohibited.
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. You will be asked to leave/lose attendance points if you are not able to conduct yourself in a professional manner.

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of his/her disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to www.okstate.edu/ucs/stdis/ for additional information.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu


\newpage
# Course Schedule

If you need additional background on any of the topics covered you can consult Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty*, the textbook for History 1103 or [The American Yawp](http://www.americanyawp.com), an open access, peer-reviewed textbook.

#### August

- **20**: Introduction/Why Music Matters
- **27**: John Angaiak - "Ak'a Tamaani"

#### September

- **3**: Our Native Daughters - "Quesheba, Quesheba"
- **10**: Pete Seeger, "Yankee Doodle"
- **17**: Jimi Hendrix, "Star Spangled Banner"
- **24**: Fisk Jubilee Singers - "Sweet Low, Sweet Chariot"

#### October

- **1**: Paul Robeson - "John Brown's Body" 
- **8**: Big Bill Broonzy, "John Henry"
- **15**: The Carter Family, "No Depression"
- **22**: Bob Dylan, "Talking John Birch Paranoid Blues"
- **29**: John Coltrane, "Alabama"

#### November

- **5**: Jesse Ed Davis, "Alcatraz" **Final essay draft/outline due**
- **12**: Merl Haggard, "Okie From Muskogee"
- **19**: Loretta Lynn, "The Pill"
- **26**: Bruce Springsteen, "My Hometown"

## December

- **3**: Outkast, "B.O.B."
- **10**: **Final paper due by 5PM**

\newpage

# Final Paper

**DUE** - Tuesday, December 10th, no later than 5PM in hard copy (in my mailbox at 101 S Murray Hall) and digital copy on Canvas

## Prompt

Pick a topic in United States history and provide the history of the event utilizing a playlist of songs. The topic can be defined as broadly or narrowly as you wish it to be (e.g. racism, resistance to slavery, the Rodney King attack and its aftermath) as long as the playlist can meet the necessary criteria.

- Playlist must be at least 5 songs
- Playlist cannot contain more than one song by the same artist
- Songs from class can only be used with my approval
- Songs do not need to be contemporary to the event but need to relate to the topic in a specific manner 

## Paper Guidelines

- At least five full double-space pages
- 1-inch margins and 12-point Times New Roman font
- First page header is your full name and paper title, subsequent headers are your last name and the page number
- All citations should be in Chicago-style footnotes. References on correct citations format is available here: http://bit.ly/HistChicagoStyle


## Draft

You will turn in a draft outline of your paper no later than November 5th. This is not a formal assignment but will count towards your class participation and is a way for me to provide feedback and encourage you to consider starting on your paper earlier rather than later.

## A note on sources

Over the course of the semester you will be utilizing various materials as you assemble background on the artists and songs we'll be covering each week. In these cases it is perfectly acceptable to start with Wikipedia or a simple Google search. The goal of the weekly research assignments is to encourage you to both assemble knowledge about the topic as well as the popular understanding of the issue at hand. 

The final paper is formal paper and is treated differently. For your final paper you must only cite academic sources (e.g. no Wikipedia) and will lose points for poor references materials. Your best course of action for your final paper is the library, beginning with basic searches of the catalog, JSTOR, etc. If you have questions about materials you can come see me and you may also consider consulting with the library's subject area specialist for history. Additional information on the library's resources for history can be found here: http://info.library.okstate.edu/history


