% HIST 1103.26749
% Spring 2023 - Online
% Dr. Eberle

# Contact Information

Dr. Jared Eberle\
154 Social Sciences and Humanities\
<jared.eberle@okstate.edu>\
Office Hours: MWF 1PM-2PM\
Office Hours Sign-Up: <https://calendly.com/jared-eberle/office-hours>

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States beginning with early European-indigenous encounters and continuing through the present day. Students are expected to attend weekly lectures, complete assigned readings, and demonstrate acquired knowledge through exams and an essay assignment. Students are also expected to think critically about the complicated, and possibly controversial, nature of our nation’s shared pasts.

## A Note About Online Delivery

This course is delivered entirely online and is largely self-paced over the course of the week. Because this course does not meet in person it is expected that your work on the course each week will equal the time you would have spent in a traditional face-to-face class. Over the course of the semester you will need to cover roughly two chapters in the assigned textbook per week and complete the associated reading quizzes or primary source document assignments to keep a reasonable pace. 

I encourage you to utilize my office hours throughout the semester, especially if you are having trouble comprehending the material or find yourself falling behind or getting overwhelmed. I am also available to discuss constructing essays/planning for your exams.

# Textbook 

Eric Foner, *Give Me Liberty* Custom OSU Edition, delivered electronically through the Canvas site.

# Assignments

**Reading Quizzes** - These 16 quizzes consist of 25 multiple choice and true/false questions related to the assigned chapters in the Foner textbook. These will assess your overall comprehension of the material from the chapters. Each quiz has a time limit of 35 minutes. 

**Reading Responses** - Written responses related to the assigned primary source assignments. The questions consist of a mix of multiple choice and short response questions. These assignments are untimed. 

**Essay Exams** - Four exams that will consist of short answer responses and a formal essay responding to a prompt. On each exam you will be asked to identify five terms in a paragraph-length response that provides the relevant information on the topic as it relates to the class material and write a one to two page essay responding to an essay prompt. Essays should be well organized and reference material from the assigned readings and other course materials. Formatting guidelines will be provided with each exam. 

## Grade Breakdown

|Assignments             | Number Due | Total Points |
| ----                   | ---        |---           |
| Reading Quizzes        |16          | 400 Points   |
| Primary Source Quizzes |4           | 200 Points   |
| Exams                  |4           | 400 Points   |

## Overall Grades

| Letter Grade | Percentage |
| --- | --- |
| A   | 100%-90% |
| B   | 89%-80%  |
| C   | 79%-70%  |
| D   | 69%-60%  |
| F   | 59%-0    |

## Grading Policies

- All assignment submissions are final. No resubmissions will be accepted. 
- There is no extra credit available in the course, your grade will only consist of the assigned materials
- Once assignments have closed on Canvas they cannot be completed for credit. Technical issues that cannot be verified by me or Canvas support are not valid excuses for missing assignments. If you have technical issues you should contact Canvas support as soon as possible. 
- If you have a extenuating circumstance that prevents you from completing course assignments (unforeseen illness, etc.) you need to alert me as soon as possible and provide relevant dated documentation of the issue. 

## Incomplete Grades

Incomplete Grades University policy requires that students complete at least 50% of the assigned coursework to receive an “incomplete” grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive an “I” paired with the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B, I/C). Incompletes are not automatic, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

# Accessability Services

Disability Services According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of his/her disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Disability Services, 315 Student Union, 405-744-7116. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to https://accessibility.okstate.edu for additional information.

# Academic Integrity

Plagiarism/Academic Integrity Intentional cheating of any kind on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

All assignments must be your own work and you are prohibited from utilizing outside sources to complete assignments in the course.

# Course Schedule

The course follows the outline of Foner's *Give Me Liberty* textbook over the course of the semester. 

Each week starts on Monday and runs through the following Sunday. Materials for the week will unlock on Monday morning while the quizzes and assignments will unlock on Thursday morning. All assignments for the week need to be submitted by 11:59PM on Sunday for credit. Below is the basic outline of the course with exam weeks noted.

Week 1 (January 16-22): Chapters 1 and 2

Week 2 (January 23-29): Chapters 3 and 4

Week 3 (January 30-February 5): Chapters 5 and 6

Week 4 (February 6-12): Chapters 7 and 8 (Exam 1 Due February 9th)

Week 5 (February 13-19): Chapters 9 and 10

Week 6 (February 20-26): Chapters 11 and 12

Week 7 (February 27-March 5): Chapters 13 and 14

Week 8 (March 6-12): Chapter 15 (Exam 2 Due March 9th)

Week 9 (March 13-March 19): Spring Break

Week 10 (March 20-26): Chapters 16 and 17 

Week 11 (March 27-April 2): Chapters 18 and 19

Week 12 (April 3-9): Chapters 20 and 21 (Exam 3 Due April 6th)

Week 13 (April 10-16): Chapters 22 and 23

Week 14 (April 17-23): Chapters 24 and 25

Week 15 (April 24-30): Chapter 26

Week 16 (May 1-7): Chapters 27 and 28

Final: Due 5PM, May 6th