% History 1493.21400/30863: United States History Since 1865
% Spring 2021 — MWF 11:30AM-12:15PM
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States since the end of the Civil War in 1865. The course will cover the major themes of American history during the period as well as attempt to provide some understanding of the process relating to the construction of history and its interpretations. 

**NOTE:** This course is comprised of two concurrent sections. Section 21400 meets in-person, while section 30863 *only* meets virtually. While the two sections run at the same time, they do not overlap in terms of meeting venue. If you are in section 21400 there is no virtual option due to technicaly limitations. If you are in 30863 you cannot attend in-person due to the university's social distancing guidelines. Please more sure you check your schedule on Banner to verify you are enrolled in the correct section. If you have questions make sure to email Dr. Eberle as soon as possible.

# Contact Information

Office Hours: MW 9:30AM-11:00AM, or by appt.\
Office Hours Sign-Up: https://calendly.com/jared-eberle/office-hours \
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>                  

All office hours this semester are virtual. No in-person office hours will be offered due to the pandemic and university social distancing policies.

## Teaching Assistants

| Jorge Chavez                 | Ally Kummel                     |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| Office Hours: MW 12:45PM-2:15PM | Office Hours: MW 1PM-2:30PM |
| <jorge.chavez@okstate.edu>    | <ally.kummell@okstate.edu>      |

## Notes on Contacting Us

Emails sent to myself or your TA are professional messages and need to be treated as such. Additionally because I teach multiple courses and this class has two concurrent sections, all your emails need to include a 1) proper subject, 2) salutation, 3) a reference to the course (HIST 1103.21443 or 31221), and 4) your full name. 

Furthermore, this syllabus is your most basic reference source this semester. It provides answers to many of the questions you may have (exams, homework assignments, office hours, etc.) and you should consult this syllabus for answers prior to emailing. Emails that ask questions answered here may not get a response. This policy is not meant to be callous, but rather allows myself and your TA to ensure important emails do not get lost in the shuffle of the semester.

# What to expect

*Expect to attend both physically and mentally on a regular basis.* Even though we are meeting right after lunch and you may be in a food coma (or desperate for food), regular attendance is both expected and a critical part of the learning process. The best indicator of success in any course is regular attendance. If you cannot attend class due to COVID-19 related issues make sure you contact me as soon as possible to arrange alternatives.

*Expect to do reading and writing*. History, as with the other humanities, is primarily a reading based discipline. In addition to regular short readings throughout the semester, you will read one full length book and complete a connected short essay paper. This workload is manageable *if* you set aside time outside of class to complete the work. Simply attending lectures *will not* lead to a good grade in this class. I will provide some suggestions on writing your papers and managing your time, but keeping up on the readings and assignments is primarily your responsibility.

*Expect a greatest hits of American history*. Due to the amount of material we have to cover in a semester I cannot provide information on every facet of American history, or even cover all of the significant events. Your textbook will supplement lectures and provide far more detail than I will be able to during our weekly meetings. Just because I do not cover something in lecture *does not* exclude it from being on the tests. Additionally, I encourage anyone wanting more information on topics not covered to attend office hours, I am always happy to talk about history.

*Expect to pass, if you do the work*. This class is very hard to fail but it will not be easy. If you put in the work (regular reading, studying, attending office hours, etc.) you will more than likely get a decent grade in this class. That being said, earning an A in the class means demonstrating exemplary work on a consistent basis.

# Required Materials

Your main textbook, Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty* (OSU Custom 6th Edition) is included on the course's online classroom as part of the fees attached to this course. The Foner textbook is required for the course.  **Please note**: The textbook is required for the course assignments and is only available as an ebook on Canvas, W.W. Norton did not produce a hard copy version.  Extensions or makeups will not be granted if you opt-out and lose access to the textbook.

Additionally you need to purchase a copy of [William Cunningham's *Green Corn Rebellion*](https://bookshop.org/books/the-green-corn-rebellion/9780806140575). The book is available through any major book seller.

## Assignments

#### Syllabus Quiz

Short multiple choice quiz on Canvas that covers the basics of this syllabus. 

#### Introduction Paper

Short paper in which you will consider how your life personally would be reflected in future historical accounts. The paper is less formal than other assignments this semester and will provide you an opportunity to both potentially introduce yourself and consider how history is constructed.

#### Primary Source Responses

Four, two question responses to assigned readings in "Readings from the Norton Mix" section of the Eric Foner textbook. Additional information and the prompts for each of these assignments are available on the corresponding Canvas assignment. You will turn in a digital copy to the appropriate Canvas assignment prior to class on the dates listed in the course schedule. Assignments are graded in increments of 5 (e.g. 50, 45, 40, etc.) 

#### Green Corn Rebellion Paper

You will write a short paper dealing with the Green Corn Rebellion utilizing Cunningham's fictionalized account. The prompt and paper guidelines will be available on the Canvas assignment a month prior to the paper deadline.

#### Midterm

A take-home exam comprised of two essay questions. You will have a week to complete the exam and submit it to Canvas.

#### Final Exam

A take-home exam comprised of two essay questions. The first essay question will cover events of the second half of the course. The second essay will be a cumulative essay question that will ask to you address an overarching theme in history using examples from throughout the semester.

## Grades

|     Assignment     | Breakdown |
| :----------------: | :-------: |
|   Syllabus Quiz    |    10%    |
|    Intro Paper     |    10%    |
|  Primary Sources   |    20%    |
| *Green Corn* Paper |    20%    |
|      Midterm       |    20%    |
|       Final        |    20%    |

The following key will determine your letter grade:

| Grade |  Percentage   |
| :---: | :-----------: |
|   A   | 90% and above |
|   B   |    80%-89%    |
|   C   |    70%-79%    |
|   D   |    60-69%     |
|   F   | Less than 60% |

#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) **with the person who graded their work** to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account by your grader. If I did not grade your assignment I will only meet with you *after* you have talked to the TA. We reserve the right to raise *or* lower your grade at these meetings.

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), we **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see us in person

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- January 26: 100% refund for dropped class
- January 29: Partial refund for dropped class
- April 9: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

All assignments are due to the appropriate Canvas assignment submission by the end of the day on the due date listed in the syllabus schedule. Assignments must be submitted to Canvas and may be submitted up to a week after the assigned deadline for credit (with the exception of the final exam).. Once the assignment submission closes on Canvas the assignment will not be re-opened for credit unless students email Dr. Eberle with documentation of issues that would impend submission during the window the assignment is open. Assignment extensions are only granted for medical or other emergencies, conflicts that are known about ahead of time are not a reason for an extension after the deadline.

#### Extra Credit / Resubmissions

Any assignment submitted on time will receive a 5% bonus on the assignment. If all assignments are submitted on time the bonus points would account for half a letter grade overall. Assignments submitted after the due date will be graded for full credit. All extra credit will be based solely on the time stamp of the submission on Canvas. The course has no other extra credit opportunities this semester.

All assignments are final once submitted to Canvas so verify your file is correct before upload and verify it has been submitted without problem to Canvas after you have submitted it. Assignments cannot be resubmitted or redone for additional credit once grades have been submitted.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops are only allowed for note taking. Any non-class use will be subject to potential dismissal from class. 
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is prohibited.
- Cellphones must be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk. 
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. 

#### Disability Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of his/her disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need special accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Accessibility Services. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to https://accessibility.okstate.edu for additional information.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

All assignments submitted this semester must be your own work. You should not work with, or provide your work to a friend or classmate. Unauthorized collaboration will result in academic integrity issues for both parties.

\newpage

# Class Schedule

Schedule subject to change.

## Week 1 (1/18 - 1/22): Introductions and The Process of History
- **MONDAY:** No Class, MLK, Jr. Day
\color{red}
- **DUE SUNDAY (1/24):** Syllabus Quiz
\color{black}

## Week 2 (1/25 - 1/29): Reconstruction
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 15
* Reading Mississippi Black Codes and 14th Amendment in Reading From the Norton Mix
\color{red}
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response One
\color{black}

## Week 3 (2/1 - 2/5): Gilded Age
- **WEDNESDAY:** "Wellness Day," No Class
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 16
\color{red}
- **DUE FRIDAY**: Introduction Paper
\color{black}

## Week 4 (2/8 - 2/12): American Empire
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 17

## Week 5 (2/15-2/19): Progressive Era
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 18
\color{red}
- **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Primary Source Response Two
\color{black}

## Week 6 (2/22 - 2/26): World War I
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 19

## Week 7 (3/1 - 3/5): The Roaring Twenties and the Crash
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 20
\color{red}
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: *Green Corn Rebellion* Paper
\color{black}

## Week 8 (3/8 - 3/12): The Depression and The Second World War
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 21

## Week 9 (3/15 - 3/19): Midterm
* No Class, Midterm available on Canvas
  \color{red}
* **DUE FRIDAY**: Midterm
  \color{black}

## Week 10 (3/22 - 3/26): The Cold War and American Foreign Policy
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 22

## Week 11 (3/29 - 4/2): Vietnam and the Civil Rights Movement
* Read the American GIs and Nurses document in the Reading from the Norton Mix Section of the textbook
\color{red}
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Reading Response Three
\color{black}

## Week 12 (4/5 - 4/9): The Tumultous '60s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 24-25

## Week 13 (4/12 - 4/16):  The Rise of Conservatism and the 1970s
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Relevant parts within Foner, Chapter 26 (First half)
\color{red}
* **DUE WEDNESDAY**: Reading Response Four
\color{black}

## Week 14 (4/19 - 4/23): Reagan's Revolution and the New World Order
* *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 26 (Second Half)

## Week 15 (4/26-4/30): The Road to Today
* *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 27 and 28

## Final Exam: Due Mon, May 3rd, 11:59PM