% History 21280: Survey of American History
% Spring 2022 — MWF 1:30-2:20PM, CLB 313
% Dr.  Eberle

# Course Description

This course provides a general introduction to major themes and events in the history of North America and the United States beginning with early European-indigenous encounters and continuing through the present day. Students are expected to attend weekly lectures, complete assigned readings, and demonstrate acquired knowledge through exams and an essay assignment. Students are also expected to think critically about the complicated, and possibly controversial, nature of our nation's shared pasts. 

## COVID-19 Information

The course will provide a livestream for students who either test positive for COVID-19 or are quarantined under the University's COVID-19 policies. The course may also be shifted online for up to two weeks due to COVID-19 exposures connected to the course, any change in course delivery will be communicated ahead of time through email. The course will not offer a livestream by default. Students needing accommodations, including potential access to a livestream option, should contact Student Accessibility Services as soon as possible. Students who miss a class for non-COVID-19 reasons should attend office hours to discuss what was covered in classes missed. 

# Contact Information

Office Hours: M 3PM-5PM, W 2:30PM-3:30PM, or by appt.\
Office Hours Sign-Up: <https://calendly.com/jared-eberle/office-hours> \
Email: <jared.eberle@okstate.edu>                  

Because office hours are available virtually or in-person, all office hours appointments for Dr. Eberle need to be scheduled through Calendly, walk-ins will not be allowed to avoid confusion. **Masks expected for in-person office hours.**

## Teaching Assistants

| Kurt Terry                  |           Jessi Mays        | Nathan Johnson                |
| :---:                       | :---:                       | :---:                         |
|<kurt.terry@okstate.edu>     |    <jessi.mays@okstate.edu> | <nathan.johnson10@okstate.edu |
| Office Hours:               |  Office Hours:              | Office Hours:                 | 

## Notes on Contacting Us

Emails sent to myself or your TA are professional messages and need to be treated as such. Additionally because I teach multiple courses all your emails need to include a 1) proper subject, 2) salutation, 3) a reference to the course (HIST 1103.21280), and 4) your full name. 

Furthermore, this syllabus is your most basic reference source this semester. It provides answers to many of the questions you may have (exams, homework assignments, office hours, etc.) and you should consult this syllabus for answers prior to emailing. Emails that ask questions answered here may not get a response. This policy is not meant to be callous, but rather allows myself and your TA to ensure important emails do not get lost in the shuffle of the semester.

# Required Materials

Your main textbook, Eric Foner's *Give Me Liberty* (OSU Custom 6th Edition) is included on the course's online classroom as part of the fees attached to this course. The Foner textbook is required for the course.  **Please note**: The textbook is required for the course assignments and is only available as an ebook on Canvas, W.W. Norton did not produce a hard copy version.  Extensions or makeups will not be granted if you opt-out and lose access to the textbook.

Additionally you need to purchase a copy of Kristina Gehrmann's graphic novel adaption of *The Jungle* (ISBN 1984856480) [Amazon Link](https://www.amazon.com/Jungle-Kristina-Gehrmann/dp/1984856480) **Make sure you buy the graphic novel version, not the regular *Jungle*. If you are not sure, ask first.**

## Assignments

#### Syllabus Quiz

Short multiple choice quiz on Canvas that covers the basics of this syllabus. The quiz is pass/fail.

#### Attendance

I will take attendance 10 times randomly throughout the semester.

#### Primary Source Responses

Four, two question responses to assigned readings in "Readings from the Norton Mix" section of the Eric Foner textbook. Additional information and the prompts for each of these assignments are available on the corresponding Canvas assignment. You will turn in a digital copy to the appropriate Canvas assignment prior to class on the dates listed in the course schedule. Assignments are graded in increments of 5 (e.g. 50, 45, 40, etc.) 

#### *The Jungle* Paper

You will write a short paper dealing with the issues of Progressive Era reform utilizing *The Jungle* as a source. The prompt and paper guidelines will be available on the Canvas assignment a month prior to the paper deadline.

#### Midterm

A take-home exam comprised of two essay questions. You will have a week to complete the exam and submit it to Canvas.

#### Final Exam

A take-home exam comprised of two essay questions. The first essay question will cover events of the second half of the course. The second essay will be a cumulative essay question that will ask to you address an overarching theme in history using examples from throughout the semester.

## Grades

| Assignment        |  Breakdown  |
| :---:             |:---:        |
| Syllabus Quiz     | 10%         |
| Attendance        | 10%         | 
| Primary Sources   | 20%         |
| *The Jungle* Paper| 20%         |
| Midterm           | 20%         |
| Final             | 20%         |

The following key will determine your letter grade:

| Grade     | Percentage  |
| :---:     | :---:       |
| A         |90% and above|
|  B        |80%-89%      |
|  C        |70%-79%      |
|  D        |60-69%       |
|  F        |Less than 60%|


#### Grade Disputes

Students wishing to dispute their grades (outside of obvious mathematical errors or clarification of comments) are required to wait 24 hours after the assignment has been handed back and then need to attend office hours (or schedule a meeting) **with the person who graded their work** to formally discuss the grade they received. Be prepared to come to the meeting with specific points you feel were not taken into account by your grader. If I did not grade your assignment I will only meet with you *after* you have talked to the TA. We reserve the right to raise *or* lower your grade at these meetings.

Due to the Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), we **do not** answer any emails related to grades. Emails about grades will not be answered, students unsure about where they stand in class need to come see us in person

#### Drops

Important deadlines for dropping the class are:

- January 18: 100% refund for dropped class
- January 21: Partial refund for dropped class
- April 8: Withdraw deadline

#### Incomplete Grades

University policy requires that students complete *at least 50%* of the assigned coursework to receive an "incomplete" grade. While I will only give incompletes in extremely rare situations, be advised you will need to finish the coursework within a year to remove the incomplete, otherwise you will receive the grade you earned at that time (e.g. I/B becomes a B, etc.) **Incompletes are not automatic**, you need to meet with me in person to arrange an incomplete.

## Additional Policies

#### Late Work

All assignments, with the exception of the final exam, are due to Canvas by 11:59PM on the date listed in the syllabus. All students in the course have a "bank" of seven days for submitting late work excuse free throughout the semester. If you miss a deadline you can submit the assignment for full credit and lose as many bank days as needed, up to seven. Bank days can be used however students wish (one at a time, all at once, etc.) and apply to all assignments excluding the final. Students wishing to use a bank day need to email Dr. Eberle directly. Once the seven days are used up, assignments cannot be submitted late for credit except in extenuating circumstances with appropriate documentation. Requests for extensions without appropriate documentation will not be approved.

#### Resubmissions / Extra Credit

All assignments are final once submitted to Canvas so verify your file is correct before upload and verify it has been submitted without problem to Canvas after you have submitted it. Assignments cannot be resubmitted or redone for additional credit once the submission window has closed. 

There are two extra credit opportunities in the course this semester. First, any student who does not use any late work bank days over the course of the semester will receive 25 bonus points. Additionally if 75% of the class completes the online course evaluation at the end of the semester, the entire class will receive 25 bonus points on the final exam. There are no additional opportunities for bonus points this semester, except for the first ten students to read this and show up at my office during the first week of class.

#### Class conduct

- Laptops are only allowed for note taking. Any non-class use will be subject to potential dismissal from class. 
- Taking photographs, videos, or audio recordings of the lectures or PowerPoint slides is prohibited.
- Cellphones must be on silent and *in your backpack* not on your lap or desk. 
- Do not pack up prior to class being formally dismissed. Packing up early is not only disrespectful but causes too much noise for others to properly hear the lecture. 
- You are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner. History has a number of controversial events and we will address some of these. Please respect the views of your classmates and treat everyone with decency. 
- Violations will result in removal from class and repeat violations will result in loss of attendance points.

#### Accessibility Services

According to the Americans with Disabilities Act, each student with a disability is responsible for notifying the University of their disability and requesting accommodations. If you think you have a qualified disability and need accommodations, you should notify the instructor and request verification of eligibility for accommodations from Student Accessibility Services. Please advise the instructor of such disability and desired accommodations at some point before, during, or immediately after the first scheduled class period. Faculty members are obligated to respond when they receive official notice of a disability, but are under no obligation to provide retroactive accommodations. To receive services, you must submit appropriate documentation and complete an intake process during which the existence of a qualified disability is verified and reasonable accommodations are identified. Go to https://accessibility.okstate.edu for additional information.

#### Plagiarism/Academic Integrity

Intentional cheating on any assignment will result in formal academic integrity violation proceedings including referral to the Office of Student Conduct, and may result in a failing grade for the entire course and/or receiving a permanent notation of a violation of academic integrity on your transcript (F!) All students should be familiar with university academic integrity guidelines and procedures, including the right to appeal charges. For more information you may contact the Office of Academic Affairs, 101 Whitehurst, 405-744-5627, or visit http://academicintegrity.okstate.edu

All assignments submitted this semester must be your own work. You should not work with, or provide your work to a friend or classmate. Unauthorized collaboration will result in academic integrity issues for both parties.

\newpage

# Class Schedule

Schedule subject to change.

## Due Dates

- 1/14: Syllabus Quiz
- 1/28: Primary Source #1
- 2/11: Primary Source #2
- 3/4: Midterm
- 4/1: *Jungle* Paper
- 4/15: Primary Source #3
- 4/22: Primary Source #4
- 5/6: Final Exam **Due by 5PM**

## Week 1 (1/10 - 1/14):  Introductions
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 1
\color{red}
- **DUE FRIDAY (1/14)**: Syllabus Quiz
\color{black}

## Week 2 (1/17 - 1/21): Conquests and European Settlements
-- **MONDAY**: No Class, MLK, Jr. Day, Spend the day volunteering
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 2-4

## Week 3 (1/24 - 1/28): British Colonial Expansion
\color{red}
- **DUE FRIDAY**: Primary Source #1
\color{black}

## Week 4 (1/31 - 2/4): Revolution and a New Republic
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 5-8

## Week 5 (2/7 - 2/11): Jacksonian Democracy and Its Limitations
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 9-10
\color{red}
- **DUE FRIDAY**: Primary Source Response #2
\color{black}

## Week 6 (2/14 - 2/18): Westward Expansions and the Road to Disunion
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 11-13

## Week 7 (2/21 - 2/25): Civil War 
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 14

## Week 8 (2/28 - 3/4): Reconstruction
- Textbook supplement to lecture: Foner, Chapter 15
\color{red}
- **DUE FRIDAY**: Midterm
\color{black}

## Week 9 (3/7 - 3/11): Gilded Age
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapters 16

## Week 10 (3/14 - 3/18): Spring Break

## Week 11 (3/21 - 3/25): Progressive Era and Imperialism
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 18-19

## Week 12 (3/28 - 4/1):  The 1920s and The Great Depression
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 20-21
\color{red}
- **DUE FRIDAY**: *The Jungle* Paper
\color{black}

## Week 13 (4/4 - 4/8): World War II and Early Cold War
- *Textbook supplement to lecture*: Foner, Chapter 22-24

## Week 14 (4/11 - 4/15): The Rights Revolution
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapter 25
\color{red}
- **DUE FRIDAY**: Primary Source #3
\color{black}

## Week 15 (4/18-4/22): The Rise of Conservatism
- *Textbook supplement to lectures*: Foner, Chapters 26
\color{red}
** - DUE FRIDAY:** Primary Source #4

## Week 16 (4/25 - 4/29): The Road to Today
- Textbook supplement to lectures: Foner, Chapters 27-28

## Final Exam: Due Friday, May 6th, 5PM
